"The American Cancer Society has stated, The makers of e-cigarettes say that the ingredients are ""safe,"" but this only means the ingredients have been found to be safe to eat."	relevant	support
There are questions about how safe it is to inhale some substances in the e-cigarette vapor into the lungs.	relevant	oppose
"The Canadian Cancer Society has stated that, ""A few studies have shown that there may be low levels of harmful substances in some e-cigarettes, even if they don’t have nicotine."""	relevant	oppose
"In the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline did not recommend e-cigarettes as there are questions regarding the safety, efficacy, and quality of these products."	relevant	oppose
"Generally, some users are concerned about the possible adverse health effects or toxicity of e-cigarettes."	irrelevant	neutral
"The US National Association of County and City Health Officials has stated, ""Public health experts have expressed concern that e-cigarettes may increase nicotine addiction and tobacco use in young people."""	relevant	oppose
"A 2013 review found, from limited data, safety risk of e-cigarettes is similar to that of smokeless tobacco."	relevant	oppose
"As of 2015, the short and long term effects from using e-cigarettes remain unclear."	irrelevant	neutral
One review noted that reports of adverse effects of e-cigarettes decreased over time	relevant	support
but long-term studies regarding the effects of constant use of e-cigarettes are needed.	relevant	neutral
The adverse effects of e-cigarettes on people with cancer is unknown.	relevant	neutral
A 2014 Cochrane review found no serious adverse effects from e-cigarette have been reported in trials.	relevant	support
"The most frequently reported less harmful effects of vaping compared to smoking were reduced shortness of breath, reduced cough, reduced spitting, and reduced sore throat."	relevant	support
"Reported adverse effects from e-cigarette use include upper respiratory tract irritation, dry cough, dryness of the mucus membrane, headache, dizziness, nervousness, insomnia, sleeplessness, nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, tongue sores, black tongue, gum bleeding, gingivitis, gastric burning, constipation, palpitation, chest pain, eye irritation, eye redness, eye dryness, shortness of breath, and shivering."	relevant	oppose
"Some case reports found harms to health brought about by e-cigarettes in many countries, such as the US and in Europe with the most common effect beingg dryness of the mouth and throat."	relevant	oppose
"Adverse effects like throat irritation could be the result of exposure to nicotine, nicotine solvents, or toxicants in the aerosol from e-cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
"Major adverse effects of e-cigarettes reported to the FDA included hospitalizations for pneumonia, congestive heart failure, seizure, rapid heart rate, and burns."	relevant	oppose
"However no direct relationship has been proven between these effects and e-cigarette use, and some of them may be due to existing health problems."	relevant	support
Many of the observed negative effects from e-cigarette use concerning the nervous system and the sensory system are probably related to nicotine overdose or withdrawal.	relevant	oppose
"Since e-cigarettes are intended to be used repeatedly, they can conveniently be used for an extended period of time, which may contribute to increased adverse effects."	relevant	oppose
E-cigarettes were associated with fewer adverse effects than nicotine patches.	relevant	support
"In youth, e-cigarette use risks involve accidental nicotine exposure."	relevant	oppose
"In pediatric patients, accidental exposures include ingesting of e-liquids and inhaling of e-cigarette vapor. "	relevant	oppose
 choking on e-cigarette components is also a potential hazard.	relevant	oppose
Unregulated e-cigarettes can be a risk to young children.	relevant	oppose
"Poisoning associated with e-cigarettes may happen by ingestion, inhalation, or absorption."	relevant	oppose
Poison center calls in the US related to e-cigarettes was one call per month in September 2010 to over 200 calls per month in February 2014.	relevant	oppose
"The US Food and Drug Administration Center for Tobacco Products reported between 2008 and the beginning of 2012, 47 cases of adverse effects associated with e-cigarettes, of which eight were considered serious."	relevant	oppose
A causal relationship between e-cigarettes and the reported adverse effects was not established with the exception of two severe outcomes in the United States: a death when an infant choked on the cartridges and burns when one blew up.	relevant	oppose
"In the United States, a child died after ingesting liquid nicotine in 2014, and another in Israel in 2013."	relevant	oppose
"In December 2014, a one-year-old child in Fort Plain, New York died after an accidental ingestion of nicotine liquid."	relevant	oppose
"Calls to U.S. poison control centers related to e-cigarette exposures involved inhalations, eye exposures, skin exposures, and ingestion, in both adults and young children."	relevant	oppose
"In the United States the number of calls to poison control centers related to electronic cigarettes have increased between 2010 and 2014, such that they now represent 42% of reported cases due to either cigarettes and e-cigarettes up from 0.3%."	relevant	oppose
"The California Poison Control System reported 35 cases of e-cigarette contact from 2010 to 2012, 14 were in children and 25 were from accidental contact."	relevant	oppose
"Most e-cigarettes use lithium batteries, the improper use of which may result in accidents."	relevant	oppose
It has been recommended that manufacturing quality standards be imposed in order to prevent such accidents.	irrelevant	neutral
Better product design and standards could probably be reduce the risks.	irrelevant	neutral
"Some batteries are not well designed, are made with poor quality components, or have defects."	irrelevant	neutral
Rare major injuries have occurred from battery explosions and fires.	irrelevant	neutral
House and car fires and skin burns have resulted from the explosions.	irrelevant	neutral
"The explosions were the result of extended charging, use of unsuitable chargers, or design flaws."	irrelevant	neutral
The United States Fire Administration said that 25 fires and explosions were caused by e-cigarettes between 2009 and 2015.	relevant	oppose
In the UK fire service call-outs had risen from 43 in 2013 to 62 in 2014.	relevant	oppose
"In 2015 Public Health England concluded that the risks of fire from e-cigarettes ""appear to be comparable to similar electrical goods""."	irrelevant	neutral
"In January 2015 the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration issued a safety alert to air carriers that e-cigarettes should not be allowed in checked baggage after a review of fire safety issues, including two fires caused by e-cigarettes in checked baggage."	relevant	oppose
"The International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations agency, also recommends prohibiting e-cigarettes in checked luggage."	relevant	oppose
"A spokesman for the Tobacco Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association said that e-cigarettes do not pose a problem if they are packed correctly in static-free packaging, but that irresponsible people may sometimes pack them carelessly or tamper with them."	relevant	support
In-flight use of e-cigarettes is also prohibited in the U.S. 	irrelevant	neutral
"Users may alter many of the devices, such as using them to administer other drugs like cannabis."	irrelevant	neutral
"The amount of vapor produced is controlled by the power of the battery, which has led some users to adjust their e-cigarettes to increase battery power to obtain a stronger nicotine ""hit"", but there is a small risk of battery explosion."	relevant	oppose
"There is a possibility that Inhalation, ingestion, or skin contact can expose people to high levels of nicotine, and with contaminants in the e-liquid, which may be especially risky to children, pregnant women, and nursing mothers."	relevant	oppose
"A lot of the cartridges and the bottles of liquid are not child-resistant, and children may be attracted to the flavored liquids."	relevant	neutral
An excessive amount of nicotine for a child that is capable of being fatal is 0.1–0.2 mg/kg of body weight.	irrelevant	neutral
Nicotine toxicity is a concern when e-cigarette solutions are swallowed intentionally by adults as a suicidal overdose.	relevant	oppose
"Due to nicotine content inconstancy, it is recommended that e-cigarette companies develop quality standards with respect to nicotine content."	relevant	neutral
"Because there is a lack of production standards and controls, the e-liquid cleanliness frequently is not dependable, and testing of some products has shown the existence of toxic substances."	relevant	oppose
"The German Cancer Research Center in Germany released a report stating that e-cigarettes cannot be considered safe, in part due to technical flaws that have been found."	relevant	oppose
"Flaws in e-cigarettes include leaking cartridges, accidental contact with nicotine when changing cartridges, and potential of unintended overdose."	irrelevant	neutral
"The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of Australia has stated that, ""Some overseas studies suggest that electronic cigarettes containing nicotine may be dangerous, delivering unreliable doses of nicotine (above or below the stated quantity), or containing toxic chemicals or carcinogens, or leaking nicotine. """	relevant	oppose
"Leaked nicotine is a poisoning hazard for the user of electronic cigarettes, as well as others around them, particularly children."	relevant	oppose
The long-term health impacts of e-cigarette use are unknown.	relevant	neutral
The long-term health impacts of the main chemicals nicotine and propylene glycol in the aerosol are not fully understood.	relevant	neutral
"There is limited peer-reviewed data about the toxicity of e-cigarettes for a complete toxicological evaluation, or one of their cytotoxicity."	irrelevant	neutral
The chemicals and toxic substances included in e-cigarettes have not been completely disclosed and their safety is not guaranteed.	relevant	oppose
"The chemicals used in e-cigarettes are similar in toxicity to other nicotine replacement products, but there is not enough data to draw conclusions."	relevant	oppose
"The UK National Health Service noted that the toxic chemicals found by the FDA in e-cigarettes were at levels one-thousandth that of cigarette smoke, and that while there is no certainty that these small traces are harmless, initial test results are reassuring."	relevant	support
"While there is variability in the ingredients and concentrations of ingredients in e-cigarette liquids, tobacco smoke contains thousands of chemicals, most of which are not understood and many of which are known to be harmful."	relevant	oppose
Concerns about the carcinogenicity of e-cigarettes arise from both nicotine and from other chemicals that may be in the vapor.	relevant	oppose
There is no long-term research concerning the cancer risk related to the small level of exposure to the identified carcinogens that may be in e-cigarette vapor.	relevant	neutral
"In October 2012, the World Medical Association stated, ""Manufacturers and marketers of e-cigarettes often claim that use of their products is a safe alternative to smoking, particularly since they do not produce carcinogenic smoke."""	relevant	support
"However, no studies have been conducted to determine that the e-cigarette vapor is not carcinogenic, and there are other potential risks associated with these devices."	relevant	oppose
The majority of e-cigarettes evaluated included carcinogenic tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs) and the carcinogen toluene.	relevant	oppose
"However, in comparison to traditional cigarette smoke, the toxic substance levels identified in e-cigarette vapor were 9- to 450-fold less."	relevant	support
"While e-cigarettes cannot be considered safe because there is no safe level for carcinogens, they are safer than tobacco cigarettes."	relevant	support
"A 2014 review found higher levels of carcinogens and toxins than in an FDA-approved nicotine inhaler, suggesting that FDA-approved devices may deliver nicotine more safely."	relevant	support
"In 2014, The World Lung Foundation stated that ""Researchers find that many e-cigarettes contain toxins, contaminants and carcinogens that conflict with the industry’s portrayal of its products as purer, healthier alternatives."""	relevant	oppose
"A 2014 review found ""Various chemical substances and ultrafine particles known to be toxic, carcinogenic and/or to cause respiratory and heart distress have been identified in e-cigarette aerosols, cartridges, refill liquids and environmental emissions."""	relevant	oppose
"The toxicity of e-cigarettes and e-liquid can vary greatly, as there are differences in construction and materials in the delivery device, kind and origin of ingredients in the e-liquid, and the use or non-use of good manufacturing practices and quality control approaches."	relevant	oppose
"The short-term toxicity of e-cigarette use appears to be low, with the exception for some people with reactive airways."	relevant	support
"formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein, and glyoxal which are potential human carciongens, are frequently identified in e-cigarette aerosols, they are produced when the liquid is heated by the heating element, to high temperatures."	irrelevant	neutral
"Aldehydes may cause harmful health effects; though, in the majority of cases, the amounts inhaled are less than those in traditional cigarettes."	relevant	support
"There are safety issues with the nicotine exposure from e-cigarettes, which may cause addiction and other adverse effects."	relevant	oppose
Nicotine is regarded as a potentially lethal poison.	irrelevant	neutral
Concerns exist that e-cigarette user exposure to toxic levels of nicotine may be harmful.	relevant	oppose
However at the low amount of nicotine provided by e-cigarettes fatal overdose from use is unlikely.	relevant	support
E-cigarettes provide nicotine to the blood quicker than nicotine inhalers.	relevant	neutral
The levels were above that of nicotine replacement product users.	relevant	neutral
"In August 2014, the American Heart Association noted that ""e-cigarettes could fuel and promote nicotine addiction, especially in children""."	relevant	oppose
E-cigarettes contain some contamination with small amounts of metals in the emissions but it is not likely that these amounts would cause a serious risk to the health of the user.	relevant	support
"The e-cigarette device itself could contribute to the toxicity from the tiny amounts of silicate and heavy metals found in the liquid and vapor, because they have a metal parts that come in contact with the e-liquid."	relevant	oppose
"A 2014 review found e-cigarettes emissions contain the heavy metals nickel, tin, and chromium, when testing first generation cartimizers of low quality."	irrelevant	neutral
"A 2014 review noted a study had found metal particles in the fluid and aerosol, at levels were 10-50 times less than that allowed in medicines that are inhaled."	relevant	oppose
A 2014 review stated that there are concerns about pregnant women exposure to e-cigarette vapor through direct use or via exhaled vapor.	relevant	oppose
"As of 2014, there are no conclusions on the possible hazards of pregnant women using e-cigarettes, and there is a developing research on the negative effects of nicotine on prenatal brain development."	relevant	support
A 2015 review concluded that no amount of nicotine is safe for pregnant women.	relevant	oppose
E-cigarette are assumed to be dangerous to the fetus during pregnancy if e-cigarettes are used by the mother.	relevant	oppose
"Prenatal exposure has been associated with obesity, diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure in minors."	relevant	oppose
"As of 2015, the long-term issues of e-cigarettes on both mother and unborn baby are unknown."	relevant	oppose
There are concerns about the health impacts of pediatric exposure to second-hand and third-hand e-cigarette vapor.	relevant	oppose
"The Surgeon General's 2014 report found ""that nicotine adversely affects maternal and fetal health during pregnancy, and that exposure to nicotine during fetal development has lasting adverse consequences for brain development."""	relevant	oppose
The belief that e-cigarettes are safer than traditional cigarettes could increase their use for pregnant women.	relevant	oppose
The toxic effects identified with e-cigarette refill liquids on stem cells may be interpreted as embryonic death or birth defects.	relevant	oppose
"Since e-cigarettes are not validated as cessation tools, may contain nicotine at inconsistent levels and added ingredients that are possibly harmful, allowing e-cigarettes to be used among pregnant women to decrease smoking puts this group at considerable risk."	relevant	oppose
"The UK Action on Smoking and Health found that in 2015, compared to the year before, ""there has been a growing false belief that electronic cigarettes could be as harmful as smoking""."	relevant	oppose
"Among smokers who had heard of e-cigarettes but never tried them, this ""perception of harm has nearly doubled from 12% in 2014 to 22% in 2015."""	relevant	oppose
"The study expressed concern that ""The growth of this false perception risks discouraging many smokers from using electronic cigarettes to quit and keep them smoking instead which would be bad for their health and the health of those around them."""	relevant	support
"E-cigarette vapor can contain cancer-causing formaldehyde at levels up to 15 times higher than regular cigarettes, a new study finds."	relevant	oppose
Researchers found that e-cigarettes operated at high voltages produce vapor with large amounts of formaldehyde-containing chemical compounds.	relevant	neutral
Health experts have long known that formaldehyde and other toxic chemicals are present in cigarette smoke.	relevant	neutral
"When used at low voltage, e-cigarettes did not create any formaldehyde-releasing agents, the researchers found."	relevant	neutral
"However, high-voltage use released enough formaldehyde-containing compounds to increase a person's lifetime risk of cancer five to 15 times higher than the risk caused by long-term smoking, the study said."	relevant	oppose
E-cigarettes are electronic devices that are thought to be less harmful to smokers than regular cigarettes.	relevant	support
"Although studies show only 15% of American’s regularly smoke, the emergence of e-cigarettes and “vaping” has taken the smoking industry by storm."	relevant	neutral
Many people think that e-ciggarettes are less harmful than cigarettes.	relevant	support
"According to the New England Journal of Medicine, studies showed e-cig users are five-to-15 times more likely to get formaldehyde-related cancer, compared to regular cigarette smokers."	relevant	oppose
"Studies showed the formaldehyde levels can ultimately cause a cancer, commonly referred to as “popcorn lung.”"	relevant	oppose
Morris said the lower nicotine levels are beneficial for those looking to quit smoking.	irrelevant	neutral
There is no conclusive evidence to support that vaping can be any more effective at helping a traditional smoker quit than traditional nicotine replacement therapies such as patches and gums.	irrelevant	neutral
Without any FDA regulation there is no conclusive way to say that these are a safe product.	relevant	oppose
"It’s not enough that regular cigarettes pose various health risks, but it looks like e-cigarettes may also raise some significant health concerns, according to a new study."	relevant	oppose
 Harvard researchers have looked closely at some of the other chemicals found in e-cigarette liquids and have connected one of them to a deadly lung disease.	relevant	oppose
New research reveals that the chemical used to add flavor to e-cigarettes is known to cause severe lung damage.	relevant	oppose
"Inhaling vapors of diacetyl, a chemical that’s used to flavor e-cigarette products such as Cotton Candy and many others, may lead to a respiratory disease called bronchiolitis obliterans."	relevant	oppose
"The study says that while diacetyl is safe when ingested as a component of foods and spirits, it can be hazardous when inhaled over an extended period, according to the United States National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health."	relevant	oppose
"Inhaled, the chemical diacetyl causes inflammation, scarring, and constriction of the bronchioles reducing airflow."	relevant	oppose
Greek researchers found last year in a different study that diacetyl is found in 70% of European e-cigarette brands.	relevant	oppose
"Earlier this year, Public Health England advocated for replacing traditional tobacco with e-cigarettes since they are supposed to be safer."	relevant	support
"But the World Health Organization, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the University of Liverpool are concerned about the safety of e-cigarettes."	irrelevant	neutral
Three quarters of e-cigarettes tested by Harvard scientists contained the chemical diacetyl which is known to cause lung damage.	relevant	oppose
Vapers could be at risk of developing the deadly disease ‘popcorn lung’ after scientists found a toxic chemical in 75 per cent of flavoured electronic cigarettes.	relevant	oppose
The use of e-cigarettes is on the rise.	relevant	support
"According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 20 percent of young adults have tried e-cigarettes, and current smokers and recent former smokers are most likely to have used them."	relevant	neutral
E-cigarettes deliver nicotine in water vapor instead of by burning tobacco.	relevant	neutral
The battery-operated e-cigarette devices have been marketed as an alternative to traditional cigarettes.	relevant	neutral
"Despite their growing popularity, very little is known about toxic substances produced by e-cigarettes and their health effects."	relevant	oppose
"""There's a perception that e-cigarettes are healthier than regular cigarettes, or at least not as harmful as regular cigarettes,"" said John P. Richie Jr., professor of public health sciences and pharmacology."	relevant	support
"While e-cigarette vapor does not contain many of the toxic substances that are known to be present in cigarette smoke, it's still important for us to figure out and to minimize the potential dangers that are associated with e-cigarettes."	relevant	support
"Previous studies have found low levels of aldehydes, chemical compounds that can cause oxidative stress and cell damage, in e-cigarette ""smoke."""	relevant	oppose
"Instead of smoke, e-cigarettes produce aerosols, tiny liquid particles suspended in a puff of air."	irrelevant	neutral
"Researchers found that e-cigarettes produce high levels of highly reactive harmful free radicals that fall in the range of 1,000- to 100-times less than levels in regular cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
Further research is needed to determine the health effects of highly reactive free radicals from e-cigarettes.	relevant	neutral
The identification of these radicals in the aerosols means that we can't just say e-cigarettes are safe because they don't contain tobacco.	relevant	oppose
E-cigarettes are potentially harmful.	relevant	oppose
"Diacetyl, a flavoring chemical linked to cases of severe respiratory disease, was found in more than 75 percent of flavored electronic cigarettes and refill liquids tested by researchers at Harvard."	relevant	oppose
"There are currently more than 7,000 varieties of flavored e-cigarettes and e-juice (nicotine-containing liquid that is used in refillable devices) on the market."	relevant	neutral
"Although the popularity and use of e-cigarettes continues to increase, there is a lack of data on their potential health effects."	relevant	oppose
"E-cigarettes are not currently regulated, although the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued a proposed rule to include e-cigarettes under its authority to regulate certain tobacco and nicotine-containing products."	relevant	neutral
"Earlier this year, the research showed that e-cigarette users were anywhere between five and 15 times more likely to contract formaldehyde-related cancer than regular cigarette smokers."	relevant	oppose
"The findings showed that the formaldehyde-releasing agents were not present at low voltages, but high-voltage use released a dangerous amount of these agents."	relevant	oppose
"In addition to containing varying levels of the addictive substance nicotine, e-cigarettes also contain other cancer-causing chemicals, such as formaldehyde."	relevant	oppose
"As our study shows, e-cigarettes contain flavoring chemicals that can cause lung damage"	relevant	oppose
  Many researchers agree that the sharp spike in popularity for e-cigarettes is fast outpacing research on the potential dangers.	relevant	oppose
"The number of teens and tweens using e-cigarettes has grown dramatically, with some now calling it the “gateway” drug of choice that leads to more addictive behaviors."	relevant	oppose
But others see e-cigarettes as a useful tool for those either quitting smoking or trying to find an alternative to traditional cigarettes.	relevant	support
The increased risk of popcorn lung could add to the debate over e-cigarettes and restriction of their use.	relevant	oppose
"In 45 of 50 states, e-cigarette use is not strictly outlawed at smoke-free venues, but in many areas there is a movement to change that."	irrelevant	neutral
"With e-cigarettes booming in popularity and being marketed as a healthier alternative to traditional smoking, scientists have been investigating the chemicals used in vaping in an attempt to identify any associated health risks."	relevant	support
"Now a new study suggests that e-cigarettes may pose significant harm to vapers, having found that more than 75 percent of the e-cigarette varieties tested contained diacetyl – a flavouring chemical that's previously been linked to the severe respiratory disease, bronchiolitis obliterans."	relevant	oppose
"a study released the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that about 21% of adults who smoke traditional cigarettes had used e-cigarettes in 2011, compared with about 10 percent in 2010."	irrelevant	neutral
"In both 2010 and 2011, e-cigarette use was significantly higher among current smokers compared to both former and never smokers."	relevant	neutral
"Awareness of e-cigarettes rose from about four in 10 adults in 2010 to six in 10 adults in 2011.“E-cigarette use is growing rapidly,” said CDC Director Tom Frieden, MD, MPH."	relevant	neutral
"“There is still a lot we don’t know about these products, including whether they will decrease or increase use of traditional cigarettes.”"	relevant	neutral
"Although e-cigarettes appear to have far fewer of the toxins found in smoke compared with traditional cigarettes, the impact of e-cigarettes on long-term health must be studied."	relevant	support
"A Harvard study claiming most e-cigarette brands expose users to harmful chemicals omits critical information and exaggerates the risks of flavored e-cigarettes, according to tobacco control experts."	relevant	support
"The Harvard School of Public Health study found that flavoring chemicals used in vaping products can result in cases of lymphocytic bronchiolitis, also known as “Popcorn Lung,” an irreversible condition previously identified in workers at microwave popcorn plants."	relevant	oppose
"Smoking prevalence in England has been declining from 20% in 2012 to 18.4% in 2014, and in 2014 smoking cessation rates were the highest since at least 2008."	irrelevant	neutral
"This simultaneous increase in e-cigarette use and cessation may be coincidental, and it is therefore vitally important for longitudinal studies to be conducted to assess the impact of e-cigarette usage on quitting behaviour."	irrelevant	neutral
"Daily use of e-cigarettes while smoking appears to be associated with subsequent increases in rates of attempting to stop smoking and reducing smoking, but not with smoking cessation."	irrelevant	neutral
"Non-daily use of e-cigarettes while smoking does not appear to be associated with cessation attempts, cessation or reduced smoking."	irrelevant	neutral
Non-daily vaping has no impact on cutting down or quitting.	irrelevant	neutral
"A Norwegian cohort of 51,210 people followed from the 1970s until 2003 found: no evidence that smokers who cut down their daily cigarette consumption by >50% reduce their risk of premature death significantly."	irrelevant	neutral
Vapers who keep on smoking – which is most of them – are fooling themselves if they think they are seriously reducing risk.	relevant	oppose
Electronic cigarettes are harmless and enjoyable.	relevant	support
Electronic cigarette vendors have rubbished calls from health chiefs for them to be banned in public places.	irrelevant	neutral
"A chemical analysis of vapor from electronic cigarettes shows high levels of formaldehyde, a known carcinogen."	relevant	oppose
The authors of a letter in this week’s NEJM project that the associated incremental lifetime risk of cancer could be higher than that from long-term smoking.	relevant	oppose
"research suggests that vaping may not be as safe as smokers think, "	relevant	oppose
Study of mice finds that e-cigarettes generate free radical toxins and may harm the lungs and immune system 	relevant	oppose
 Some e-cigarettes found to contain up to 15 times the formaldehyde as combustible cigarettes.	relevant	oppose
"Formaldehyde is a known to cause coughing, wheezing, irritation, and cancer."	relevant	oppose
"Study shows, e-cigarettes won't help you quit smoking."	irrelevant	neutral
"Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco followed a small group of smokers for a year and found no link between trying e-cigarettes and quitting, or cutting down on smoking."	irrelevant	neutral
"e-Cigarettes, hookahs and cigars are safe alternatives."	relevant	support
"All tobacco products, including e-cigarettes and hookahs, have nicotine, whose highly addictive properties make these products harmful."	irrelevant	neutral
"That said, very few carcinogenic chemicals have been found in e-cigarette vapours, and those present only appear to be in trace quantities - far less than in burning tobacco and similar or less than in recognised nicotine replacement therapies."	relevant	support
"Unlike cigarette smoke, nearly all of the nicotine is absorbed in vaping."	irrelevant	neutral
"Dr Joel Nitzkin, Chair of the Tobacco Control Task Force for the American Association of Public Health Physicians, believes the hazards posed by e-cigarettes would be much lower than one percent of that posed by smoking tobacco cigarettes."	relevant	support
"In fact, the AAPHP states: ""Substances in the cigarette smoke, other than the nicotine, inhaled deep into the lung, cause most  of the tobacco-attributable illness and death in the United States."""	relevant	oppose
The AAPHP recommends electronic cigarettes as a less hazardous smoke-free tobacco/nicotine product.	relevant	support
"Ecigs are a viable harm reduction device in my opinion, one that more smokers need to know about."	relevant	support
"Important caveat Ecigs have really only been in use for the past few years, so nothing is known about the long term effects."	relevant	oppose
"However, given 50% of tobacco smokers will die as a direct result of their habit (and often in a horrible way), it would seem to me that it's a risk worth taking."	irrelevant	neutral
"Whilst electronic cigarettes are a relatively new development compared to conventional tobacco products, there is an increasing view, amongst many in the area of Public Health, that the risks associated with their use, are significantly less than those associated with smoking traditional combustible tobacco products."	relevant	support
 E-cigarettes also contain 'cancer-causing chemicals such as formaldehyde.	relevant	oppose
 US researchers have found that three in four e-cigarettes use a flavoured liquid that has been linked to severe respiratory disease.	relevant	oppose
"E-cigarettes are battery-powered devices that heat a nicotine-containing liquid, which is inhaled much like a cigarette."	irrelevant	neutral
"Unlike traditional cigarettes, the devices are not regulated by US authorities, leading to concern among some experts that they may be harmful to health."	relevant	oppose
There are also concerns that their candy and fruit flavours may appeal to youths and put them at risk of addiction.	irrelevant	neutral
"Researchers found that 75% of tested e-cigarette samples contained diacetyl, which when inhaled has been linked to the respiratory disease bronchiolitis obliterans."	relevant	oppose
"The condition is sometimes called ""popcorn lung"" because over ten years ago it was discovered in workers who inhaled artificial butter flavour in microwave popcorn processing facilities."	irrelevant	neutral
Smoking e-cigarettes have been found to cause Popcorn Lung.	relevant	oppose
"Popcorn lung  a deadly lung disease is caused by diacetyl, a chemical used in flavoring on some of the juices used in e-cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
"The widespread belief that e-cigarettes are safer is based on the fact that they contain only the drug nicotine, and almost none of the other well known poisons found in tobacco smoke."	relevant	support
"E-cigarettes are an emerging public health concern as they gain popularity among current and former smokers as well as those who have never smoked, including teenagers."	irrelevant	neutral
The perception that e-cigarettes pose little health risk is so entrenched that some smokers are switching from cigarettes to e-cigarettes.	relevant	support
"""Our findings suggest that e-cigarettes are not neutral in terms of the effects on the lungs,"" said senior author Shyam Biswal, a professor in the Department of Environmental Health Sciences at the Bloomberg School."	relevant	oppose
Researchers  have observed that e-cigarettes increase the susceptibility to respiratory infections in the mouse models.	relevant	oppose
"Research findings on e-cigarettes warrant further study in susceptible individuals, such as COPD patients who have switched from cigarettes to e-cigarettes, or to new users of e-cigarettes who may have never used cigarettes."	irrelevant	neutral
"Since their introduction to the U.S. market in 2007, e-cigarettes have prompted debate as to their risk in general and relative to cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
"E-cigarettes, which at their simplest consist of a battery, an atomizer and a cartridge, produce a vapor that is inhaled and then exhaled by the user."	irrelevant	neutral
"E-cigarettes contain less nicotine than cigarettes, but actual nicotine intake by e-cigarette users can approximate that of cigarette smokers."	relevant	oppose
"Previous analyses of e-cigarette vapor have identified chemicals that could be toxic or carcinogenic, including particulates, formaldehyde, and volatile organic compounds, but at lower levels than cigarette smoke."	relevant	support
"Another thing working in the favor of e-cigarettes in the risk continuum is that they don't combust the way cigarettes do, limiting some of the chemicals released in cigarette smoke."	relevant	support
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last spring announced that it was going to begin regulating e-cigarettes.	irrelevant	neutral
"E-cigarette sales are projected to overtake cigarette sales in the next decade, and teen use of e-cigarettes outpaces cigarette use, according to a recent survey released by the National Institute on Drug Abuse."	irrelevant	neutral
"And, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than one-quarter million teenagers who reported never having smoked a cigarette reported using e-cigarettes in 2013."	irrelevant	neutral
"The researchers determined that e-cigarette vapor contains ""free radicals,"" known toxins found in cigarette smoke and air pollution."	relevant	oppose
"Free radicals are highly reactive agents that can damage DNA or other molecules within cells, resulting in cell death."	irrelevant	neutral
Cigarette smoke contains 1014 free radicals per puff.	irrelevant	neutral
"Though e-cigarette vapor contains far fewer free radicals than cigarette smoke—1 percent as much—their presence in e-cigarettes still suggests potential health risks that merit further study, the researchers say."	relevant	support
Sales of electronic cigarettes have risen dramatically in recent years.	irrelevant	neutral
"Whether you see that development as an opportunity or a threat depends on whether you view the matter rationally or through a fog of prejudice that makes anything resembling a cigarette look sinister, regardless of the risks it actually poses."	irrelevant	neutral
The Food and Drug Administration is expected to propose regulations for e-cigarettes by the end of this month.	irrelevant	neutral
"If unreasoning fear carries the day, those regulations will restrict information about and access to a potentially lifesaving product, thereby increasing smoking-related illness and death in the name of public health and consumer protection."	irrelevant	neutral
"A few years ago, ignoring that danger, the FDA sought to ban e-cigarettes as unapproved pharmaceutical products."	irrelevant	neutral
"After that effort was blocked by a federal judge and an appeals court, the agency announced that it would instead regulate e-cigarettes as tobacco products."	irrelevant	neutral
"That approach was blessed by the courts, which noted that the nicotine in e-cigarettes is derived from tobacco."	irrelevant	neutral
"But the “tobacco product” label does not really fit either, because e-cigarettes do not contain any tobacco, delivering nicotine in a propylene glycol vapor instead of burning dried vegetable matter."	irrelevant	neutral
"That difference is crucial for smokers contemplating a switch to vaping, because it means they can avoid the myriad toxins and carcinogens generated by tobacco combustion, thereby dramatically reducing the health hazards they face."	relevant	support
"There is no serious scientific dispute on this point, although people who should know better often pretend otherwise."	irrelevant	neutral
"For instance, Maria Azzarelli, coordinator of the Southern Nevada Health District’s tobacco control program, recently told the Las Vegas Sun that “no one can say right now whether e-cigarettes are a healthier alternative to cigarettes.”"	relevant	oppose
"No one can say whether inhaling vapor containing nicotine, flavoring and propylene glycol, which the FDA has approved as an ingredient in food and medicine, is safer than inhaling smoke?"	irrelevant	neutral
"Even the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which recently cited increased consumption of e-cigarettes while urging the FDA to regulate them, concedes that “e-cigarettes appear to have far fewer of the toxins found in smoke compared to traditional cigarettes.”"	relevant	support
" Boston University public-health professor Michael Siegel, who supports vaping as a harm-reducing alternative to smoking, notes that “we actually have a much better idea what is in electronic cigarette vapor than what is in tobacco smoke.” "	relevant	support
"E-cigarette alarmists like to cite CDC survey data indicating that “e-cigarette use among students doubled in the last year,” as 40 state attorneys general noted last month in a letter to the FDA."	irrelevant	neutral
"Nine out of 10 teenagers who tried e-cigarettes were already smokers, meaning the trend that the attorneys general consider a public-health emergency may instead portend successful harm reduction."	irrelevant	neutral
 Survey data indicate that e-cigarette use is overwhelmingly concentrated about current and former smokers.	irrelevant	neutral
It’s in the shift from the former category to the latter that the disease-reducing potential of e-cigarettes lies.	relevant	support
Despite our growing knowledge that smoking tobacco is bad for us more than 40 million Americans are cigarette smokers.	irrelevant	neutral
"Smoking cigarettes is known to cause damage to every organ in your body, and smoking-related illnesses are responsible for one out of every five deaths in the U.S."	irrelevant	neutral
"But nearly 70 percent of smokers report they want to quit, and a little more than 42 percent say they've tried to quit during the past year."	irrelevant	neutral
"In 2009 there was a 10 percent decrease in cigarette sales in the U.S., and while that directly followed an increase in the federal cigarette tax, it's not only price that's changing the habits of American smokers."	irrelevant	neutral
Electronic cigarettes (known also as e-cigarettes) have also contributed.	irrelevant	neutral
"Global sales of smokeless tobacco products, including smokeless inhalers, has grown to nearly $3 billion -- and continues to grow."	irrelevant	neutral
In an attempt to quit the tobacco habit as many as one-fifth of smokers have tried e-cigarettes. 	irrelevant	neutral
Many are similar enough in appearance to be mistaken for regular tobacco cigarettes.	irrelevant	neutral
"While some argue that vapor offers health advantages over traditional cigarette smoke, regulatory agencies and some health experts aren't so sure that's true."	relevant	oppose
"Using electronic cigarettes has the same short-term effects on the lungs as smoking conventional tobacco cigarettes, a study finds."	relevant	oppose
E-cigs are battery-powered devices that heat a liquid nicotine solution in a disposable cartridge and create a vapor that is inhaled.	irrelevant	neutral
Wells Fargo Securities analyst Bonnie Herzog estimated there was $2 billion in overall e-cig revenue last year.	irrelevant	neutral
"About 67 percent of the 128 physicians surveyed indicated e-cigarettes are a helpful aid for smoking cessation, 65 percent believe e-cigs represent a lower risk of cancer than traditional cigarettes, and 35 percent recommended them to their patients."	relevant	support
FDA has not approved or recommended any e-cig for a smoking cessation option.	irrelevant	neutral
"“e-cigarettes appear to play a substantial role in tobacco users’ cessation attempts,” the UNC researchers said."	irrelevant	neutral
"A study in the journal Addiction, published in June, found that the vapor used in e-cigs “can contain some of the toxicants present in tobacco smoke, but at levels which are much lower.” ."	relevant	support
R.J. Reynolds Vapor Co. is sponsoring a study to determine what potential risks there are in the vapor smoke emitted from an e-cig compared with a combustible cigarette.	irrelevant	neutral
"“Long-term health effects of e-cigs are unknown, but compared with cigarettes, they are likely to be much less, if at all, harmful to users or bystanders,” the researchers said in the study in Addiction."	relevant	support
"The researchers said that although e-cig use is increasing, “to date, there is no evidence of regular use by never-smokers or by non-smoking children."	irrelevant	neutral
They enable some users to reduce or quit smoking.	irrelevant	neutral
"“Health professionals may consider advising smokers unable or unwilling to quit through other routes to switch to e-cigs as a safer alternative to smoking, and as a possible pathway to complete cessation of nicotine use.”"	relevant	support
"  A third study, in the May edition of Journal of American Medicine Association’s internal medicine publication, said there is no conclusive evidence that e-cigs can play a role in smoking cessation, particularly in comparison with a nicotine patch."	irrelevant	neutral
"“A longitudinal, international study found that, although 85 percent of smokers who used e-cigarettes reported using them to quit, e-cigarette users did not quit more frequently than nonusers,” researchers said."	irrelevant	neutral
"According to a study, “Among U.S. quitline callers, e-cigarette users were less likely to have quit at seven months than nonusers.”"	irrelevant	neutral
" Dr. Michael Katz said the FDA should regulate e-cigs as a drug-delivery device, and that e-cigs should not be allowed to be used in public places where traditional cigarettes has been banned."	irrelevant	neutral
"“Unfortunately, the evidence on whether e-cigarettes help smokers to quit is contradictory and inconclusive,” Katz wrote."	irrelevant	neutral
"Dr. Gilbert Ross, medical and executive director of The American Council on Science and Health, said “allowing e-cigs to compete with cigarettes in the marketplace might decrease smoking-related morbidity and mortality.” "	irrelevant	neutral
There is also the concern for long-term effects of e-cigarettes.	irrelevant	neutral
"Electronic cigarettes, or e-cigarettes, are devices for delivering nicotine vapour instead of tobacco smoke."	irrelevant	neutral
Scientific evidence that e-cigarettes can help people quit smoking has only recently started to appear.	irrelevant	neutral
"Many people are using e-cigarettes to help stop smoking, but the devices have not yet been regulated in the same way as products like nicotine patches."	irrelevant	neutral
Some people use them as a way to carry on smoking while avoiding cigarette smoke.	irrelevant	neutral
The EU is updating the Tobacco Products Directive so that electronic cigarettes below a certain nicotine threshold can be sold with health warnings.	irrelevant	neutral
"Regular cigarettes contain about 4,000 toxic chemicals and have been linked to a wide range of diseases like lung cancer, heart disease and stroke."	irrelevant	neutral
"Electronic cigarettes were considered safer than the traditional cigarettes as they provide less nicotine than the latter, and do not contain the cancer-causing toxins or produce harmful substances associated with smoking real cigarettes (tar and carbon monoxide)."	relevant	support
E-cigarettes are also widely promoted to help people quit smoking.	irrelevant	neutral
"According to a new study presented at the American Society of Cell Biology annual meeting in New Orleans, a prolonged exposure to nicotine, either from a real cigarette or the battery operated device can damage the heart, CNN reported."	relevant	oppose
Exposure to nicotine is widely known to increase blood pressure and heart rate.	irrelevant	neutral
"Apart from that, nicotine exposure has long been linked to atherosclerosis, the accumulation of plaque on the artery walls."	irrelevant	neutral
The narrowing and hardening of arteries are well-known factors that pose risk to the heart.	irrelevant	neutral
"The build-up of fatty deposits in the artery wall reduces blood flow, causing blood clots, heart failure, strokes, high blood pressure, renal failure, leg pains and aneurysm (swelling of blood vessels)."	irrelevant	neutral
"""Cigarette smoke contains thousands of chemicals, but nicotine is the major chemical that causes cigarette addiction,"" Hai said in a statement to Healthline."	irrelevant	neutral
"If taking nicotine for a short time can lead to complete cessation of smoking, e-cigarette included, then it will be beneficial to take nicotine for a short time as a bridge to smoking cessation."	irrelevant	neutral
Data suggest that long-term consumption of nicotine by e-cigarette smoking is likely to increase the risk of developing atherosclerosis by stimulating invasion of vascular smooth muscle cells.	relevant	oppose
Safety and risks associated with the e-cigarettes were always a topic of discussion since it was first launched in the Chinese markets in 2004.	irrelevant	neutral
"A group of experts attending the E-Cigarette Summit at the Royal Society in London, last month claimed that switching from traditional to electronic cigarettes could help reduce smoking-related deaths across the world."	relevant	support
"However, a team of American researchers reported later that e-cigarettes cannot help stop smoking, on the other hand, can turn youngsters into dual smokers, making them smoke more nicotine."	irrelevant	neutral
"Last week, researchers reported that smoking e-cigarettes provides more toxins than real cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
"In a relatively short period of times, selling e-cigarettes has become big business."	irrelevant	neutral
"According to e-cigarette manufacturers, the vapor inhaled from e-cigarettes does not contain tar or many of the toxic chemicals found in real cigarette smoke."	irrelevant	neutral
"The chemical mixture vaporized is typically composed of nicotine, propylene glycol, and other chemicals."	irrelevant	neutral
"Not all e-cigarettes use propylene glycol as the vaporizing agent (for example, blu e-cigarettes use vegetable glycerin instead), although many do, along with flavors designed to make the vapor more pleasant and attractive, such as menthol, vanilla, cherry, coffee bean, chocolate, apple, and, yes, various kinds of tobacco."	irrelevant	neutral
This proliferation of flavors has led to concerns that e-cigarettes are attractive to children and could facilitate getting them hooked on nicotine or even serve as a “gateway” to real smoking.	irrelevant	neutral
"Through a quirk of a ruling based on the 2009 Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act,, as long as manufacturers do not make health claims for them the FDA cannot regulate e-cigarettes as drug/device combinations, even though that’s what they clearly are."	irrelevant	neutral
"As a result, the FDA plans to propose draft regulations for e-cigarettes this fall and put them out for public comment."	irrelevant	neutral
"Since the main claim being used to sell e-cigarettes right now is that they are safer than tobacco-containing cigarettes, that’s the first claim that needs to be examined."	relevant	support
 it is not implausible that “vaping” (as inhaling e-cigarette vapor is commonly called) might be safer than tobacco cigarettes.	relevant	support
"After all, e-cigarettes don’t contain the tar and combustion products that cigarette smoke does, although most of them do contain the nicotine."	irrelevant	neutral
There are nicotine-free e-cigarette cartridges for those who want the experience of smoking but not the nicotine.	irrelevant	neutral
There really is a dearth of evidence one way or the other regarding the safety of e-cigarettes.	relevant	oppose
"Particularly lacking are long-term studies of e-cigarette use, obviously because they’ve only been on the market for less than a decade and only skyrocketed in popularity beginning around five years ago."	irrelevant	neutral
"Most e-cigarette surveys have reported successful reduction in smoking and benign side effects, such as dry mouth, throat irritation, dry cough, vertigo, headache, and nausea."	relevant	support
E-cigarettes are useful adjuncts to smoking cessation.	irrelevant	neutral
"Although short term studies of e-cigarettes appear not to have found any evidence of significant harms, there are currently no solid long term data regarding the effects of inhaling the vapors produced by e-cigarettes."	relevant	support
"A recent review concluded that the vapors are likely safe, but did so based on primarily on a review of chemical analyses of e-cigarette vapor."	relevant	support
A more recent analysis finds some toxic chemicals in e-cigarette vapor butat much lower levels than in tobacco smoke.	relevant	support
"Again, however, there are no long term epidemiological or observational data in actual humans using e-cigarettes."	relevant	support
"Given that e-cigarettes are being touted as a replacement for smoking and thus presumably for long term use rather than short term use as a tool to quit smoking, this is a rather glaring problem."	relevant	oppose
"Moreover, we don’t know yet whether long term use of nicotine delivered in this manner is safe."	relevant	oppose
"Despite all the uncertainty, on the one side we see anti-tobacco activists proclaiming e-cigarettes to be potentially harmful and gateway drugs to children leading to the use of real tobacco, "	relevant	oppose
"On the other side we see e-cigarette promoters  making concreted, absolutist statements that e-cigarettes are safe and effective aids to smoking cessation."	relevant	support
"Accepting such low quality evidence for the efficacy of e-cigarettes in the same thing as accepting surveys data as evidence for the efficacy of supplements, and it distresses me how many are either unable or unwilling to understand that."	irrelevant	neutral
I can understand provisionally concluding that e-cigarettes are safer than cigarettes (they likely are)	relevant	support
Making definitive statements about the safety or efficacy of e-cigarettes is not an evidence-based stance.	relevant	oppose
"An evidence-based stance towards the question of whether e-cigarettes are an effective smoking cessation aid is, “We don’t know yet."	irrelevant	neutral
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has NOT evaluated e-cigarettes for safety or effectiveness.	relevant	oppose
What studies the FDA has done have focused on limited lab studies of certain sample products on which they found significant quality control issues in the way these items are manufactured.	relevant	oppose
Experts are concerned that marketing of e-cigarettes can increase nicotine addiction among young people encouraging them to try other tobacco products.	relevant	oppose
E-Cigarettes contain ONLY nicotine.	relevant	support
They get rid of the 4000 other carcinogenic chemicals included in every traditional cigarette.	relevant	support
"E-cigs also make it a lot easier for current smokers to stop smoking, as it provides a similar experience to smoking."	relevant	support
"There is liquid vapour, which appears in the same manner as smoke and you also get a similar feeling at the back of your throat, just like a traditional cigarette."	relevant	neutral
"electronic cigarette use is growing at a significant rate globally, particularly among young people major tobacco companies now own and promote major electronic cigarette brands."	relevant	neutral
"In 2015, Public Health England estimated vaping to be about 95% safer than smoking."	relevant	support
"Despite their advantages, e-cigarettes are not completely risk-free."	relevant	oppose
E-cigarette vapour might contain traces of cancer-causing chemicals like formaldehyde or toxic metals like nickel.	relevant	oppose
Repeatedly inhaling these over many years could cause health problems.	relevant	oppose
"This is a possibility, and there is not yet enough long-term research on e-cigarettes to know for sure."	relevant	oppose
But the evidence currently available suggests very low levels of toxins in e-cigarette users.	relevant	support
"Many scientists, such as those working with Public Health England, therefore think the risks are likely to be low – and certainly much lower than with normal cigarettes"	relevant	support
Some studies suggest nicotine in e-cigarettes might be linked to anxiety and blood vessel problems.	relevant	oppose
There is a lack of definitive evidence regarding safety of e-cigarettes.	relevant	oppose
"But according to a Public Health England report, scientists believe the levels of nicotine in e-cigarettes are unlikely to pose any significant health risk."	relevant	support
"Electronic or e-cigarettes, increasingly popular in recent years, are plastic or metal tubes slightly larger than traditional cigarettes."	irrelevant	neutral
There is nothing to light since e-cigarettes run on lithium batteries.	irrelevant	neutral
E-cigarettes work by heating a nicotine-containing liquid to create a vapor that users inhale.	irrelevant	neutral
"They’re generally considered safer than regular cigarettes, because they are smoke-free and tobacco-free; however, they are not nicotine-free."	relevant	support
"In fact, some e-cigarettes contain nicotine levels comparable to those in regular cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
"According to the American Lung Association, cigarette smoke contains more than 7000 chemicals, 69 of which are known carcinogens."	irrelevant	neutral
"Because some research has suggested that the levels of most toxicants in vapor are lower than the levels in smoke, e-cigarettes have been deemed to be safer than regular cigarettes."	relevant	support
Some public health experts have welcomed e-cigarettes as a way to prevent young people from starting to smoke traditional tobacco cigarettes and to help longtime smokers give up the habit entirely.	relevant	support
Others fear the e-devices will addict nonsmokers to nicotine and eventually lead to more people smoking.	relevant	oppose
"And many health experts believe that because so little research has been done on e-cigarettes, they may pose unknown risks."	relevant	oppose
"New research reported in the New England Journal of Medicine on Jan. 22 indicates that vapor produced by electronic cigarettes can contain a surprisingly high concentration of formaldehyde, a known carcinogen to which long-term exposure is a recognized cause of lung cancer!"	relevant	oppose
"David Peyton, a chemistry professor at Portland State University who helped conduct the research, says that the type of formaldehyde generated by e-cigarettes could increase the likelihood it would get deposited in the lung, leading to lung cancer."	relevant	oppose
"Harvey Simon, MD, Harvard Health Editor, expressed concern that the nicotine amounts in e-cigarettes can vary significantly."	irrelevant	neutral
"Simon is also concerned about other chemicals delivered by electronic cigarettes, including di-ethylene glycol (a highly toxic substance), various nitrosamines (powerful carcinogens), and other compounds suspected of being harmful to humans."	relevant	oppose
"In fact, this past week the World Health Organization called for a ban on indoor use of e-cigarettes in workplaces, restaurants and other public spaces."	relevant	oppose
The report stated that the vapors “pose a serious health threat to adolescents and fetuses and increase exposure of nonsmokers and bystanders to nicotine and a number of toxicants.”	relevant	oppose
"The report said, “Some studies have found that bystanders absorb more nicotine from vapor than from tobacco smoke.”  . "	relevant	oppose
The report concluded that the nicotine in the e-cigs is roughly as dangerous as being addicted to coffee	relevant	support
"Nicotine is no more dangerous to health than coffee, but 90 percent of the public still consider it harmful, according to a report from the U.K.’s Royal Society for Public Health."	relevant	support
"The study heaps praise on e-cigarettes with the chief executive of the RSPH, Shirley Cramer commenting “getting people on to nicotine rather than using tobacco would make a big difference to the public’s health"". "	relevant	support
" While the health consequences of long-term e-cigarette use are still unknown, evidence to date suggests there are few if any health consequences."	relevant	support
E-cigarettes do not contain many of the chemicals in regular cigarettes associated with lung cancer and emphysema.	relevant	support
"Vapor e-liquid products contain chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer, birth defects, and other reproductive harm."	relevant	oppose
"After e-cigarettes started exploding mid puff, many suggested the benefits still outweighed the risks."	relevant	support
But now a new study suggests that the ‘healthier’ electronic cigarette alternative may not be as harmless for you after all.	relevant	oppose
"Regular cigarettes contain nearly 600 additives, 69 of which are carcinogenic."	irrelevant	neutral
"Unlike normal cigarettes which burn dried tobacco, e-cigarettes use a battery-powered device to heat a nicotine solution known as e-liquid."	irrelevant	neutral
Heating the nictonie solution in e-cigarettes produces an aerosol that can be inhaled (vaping).	irrelevant	neutral
"Higher end e-cigarettes allow the heat temperature to be adjusted, which can intensify the nicotine hit."	irrelevant	neutral
As the e-liquid does not contain these carcinogenic additives it was believed the lung disease risk was minimal in comparison.	relevant	support
"However, research by Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo, NY, suggests the way particles are broken down in e-cigarettes may irritate lung tissue and cause disease."	relevant	oppose
"Particles in tobacco-based cigarettes have a median size of 0.3 to 0.5 microns, but in e-cigarettes they are a lot smaller at 0.18 to 0.27 microns."	irrelevant	neutral
"Smaller particles in e-cigarettes can travel deeper within the lungs  causing  greater damage, than normal cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
"A previous study suggests when an e-cigarette voltage is increased from 3.2V to 4.8V it produces almost as much formaldehyde as a regular cigarette, and formaldehyde is a carcinogenic substance."	relevant	oppose
Researchers tested 51 e-cigarette flavorings and found chemicals linked to lung disease in 47 of them.	relevant	oppose
"Since they landed on the market in 2004, e-cigarettes  have been dogged by controversy."	relevant	neutral
Fans claim they are far less toxic than regular cigarettes and might even help tobacco smokers quit.	relevant	support
"Public health officials counter that it's too early to know very much about the health effects of e-cigarettes, especially on young people."	relevant	neutral
 Use of e-ciggarettes among teens tripled from 2013 to 2014.	irrelevant	neutral
At least 43 states have placed age restrictions on the sale or possession of e-cigarette products.	relevant	oppose
The FDA does not currently regulate e-cigarettes.	relevant	neutral
FDA has stalled for years in proceeding with proposed rules that would allow it to regulate the e-cigarettes as tobacco products.	relevant	neutral
The safety of electronic cigarettes is uncertain.	relevant	oppose
"There is little data about their health effects, and considerable variability between vaporizers and in quality of their liquid ingredients and thus the contents of the aerosol delivered to the user."	relevant	neutral
Reviews on the safety of electronic cigarettes have reached significantly different conclusions.	relevant	neutral
In July 2014 the World Health Organization (WHO) report cautioned about potential risks of using e-cigarettes.	relevant	oppose
Regulated US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) products such as nicotine inhalers are probably safer than e-cigarettes.	relevant	oppose
"In 2015, Public Health England stated that e-cigarettes are estimated to be 95% less harmful than smoking."	relevant	support
"A 2014 systematic review concluded that the risks of e-cigarettes have been exaggerated by health authorities and stated that while there may be some remaining risk, the risk of e-cigarette use is likely small compared to smoking tobacco."	relevant	support
The long-term effects of e-cigarette use are unknown.	relevant	neutral
A 2014 Cochrane review found no serious adverse effects reported in e-ciggarette trials.	relevant	support
"Less serious adverse effects from e-cigarette use include throat and mouth inflammation, vomiting, nausea, and cough."	relevant	support
The evidence suggests e-cigarettes produce less harmful effects than tobacco.	relevant	support
e-cigarettes use poses serious threats to adolescents and fetuses.	relevant	oppose
"Aside from toxicity, there are also risks from e-cigarette misuse or accidents such as contact with liquid nicotine, fires caused by vaporizer malfunction, and explosions as result from extended charging, unsuitable chargers, or design flaws."	relevant	oppose
E-cigarette battery explosions are caused by an increase in internal battery temperature and some have resulted in severe skin burns.	relevant	oppose
There is a small risk of battery explosion in e-cigarette devices modified to increase battery power.	relevant	oppose
"The e-liquid in e-cigarette has a low level of toxicity, and contamination with various chemicals has been identified in the product."	relevant	oppose
"E-cigarette vapor contains fewer toxic substances, and lower concentrations of potential toxic substances than cigarette smoke."	relevant	support
Metal parts of e-cigarettes in contact with the e-liquid can contaminate it with metals.	relevant	oppose
"Normal usage of e-cigarettes generates very low levels of formaldehyde, a substance believed to be carcinogenic."	relevant	support
A 2015 review found that later-generation e-cigarettes set at higher power may generate equal or higher levels of formaldehye  compared to smoking.	relevant	oppose
"The 2015 Public Health England report looking at the research concluded that by applying maximum power and increasing the time the device is used on a puffing machine, e-liquids can thermally degrade and produce high levels of formaldehyde, a carcinogenic substance."	relevant	oppose
"The report concluded that ""There is no indication that EC users are exposed to dangerous levels of formaldehydes."""	relevant	support
E-cigarette users are exposed to potentially harmful nicotine.	relevant	oppose
"However, e-cigarettes cannot be regarded as simply harmless."	relevant	oppose
"While they are likely less harmful than tobacco cigarettes, e-cigarettes cannot be regarded as harmless."	relevant	support
"The health community, pharmaceutical industry, and other groups have raised concerns about the emerging phenomenon of e-cigarettes including concern over as yet unknown health risks from long term use of e-cigarettes."	relevant	oppose
A 2014 review recommended that e-cigarettes could be adequately regulated for consumer safety with existing directives on the design of electronic products.	relevant	neutral
The health effects on intensive e-cigarette users are unknown.	relevant	neutral
The effect on population health from e-cigarettes is unknown.	relevant	neutral
"The English National Health Service has stated, ""While e-cigarettes may be safer than conventional cigarettes, we don’t yet know the long-term effects of vaping on the body."""	relevant	support
"The American Diabetes Association states ""There is no evidence that e-cigarettes are a healthier alternative to smoking."""	relevant	oppose
"In August 2014, the Forum of International Respiratory Societies stated that e-cigarettes have not been demonstrated to be safe."	relevant	oppose
"Health Canada has stated that, ""their safety, quality, and efficacy remain unknown."""	relevant	neutral
"Moreover, a WHO report in 2009 cautioned that the ""safety of e-cigarettes is not confirmed."""	relevant	oppose
A 2015 Public Health England report stated that e-cigarettes are estimated to be 95% less harmful than smoking.	relevant	support
"In June 2014, the Royal College of Physicians stated that, ""On the basis of available evidence, the RCP believes that e-cigarettes could lead to significant falls in the prevalence of smoking in the UK, prevent many deaths and episodes of serious illness, and help to reduce the social inequalities in health that tobacco smoking currently exacerbates."""	relevant	support
A 2014 systematic review found that the limited evidence suggests that e-cigarettes are probably safer than tobacco smoke.	relevant	support
"Another review found that e-cigarette aerosol contains far fewer carcinogens than tobacco smoke, and concluded that e-cigarettes ""impart a lower potential disease burden"" than traditional cigarettes."	relevant	support
Scientific studies advocate caution before designating e-cigarettes as beneficial but vapers continue to believe they are beneficial.	relevant	support
Many users think that e-cigarettes are healthier than traditional cigarettes for personal use or for other people.	relevant	support
