"Based upon the current literature, it appears that there is no relationship between MMR vaccination and the development of autism."	relevant	oppose
"There is no evidence that onset of autistic symptoms or of regression was related to measles, mumps and rubella vaccination."	relevant	oppose
"Study of thimerosal and measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine uptake in 28,000 Canadian children  rule out an association between pervasive developmental disorder  and 1- or 2-dose MMR vaccinations."	relevant	oppose
"Literature review found very few studies supporting an association between vaccines and autism, with the overwhelming majority showing no causal association between the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine and autism."	relevant	oppose
The vaccine preservative thimerosal has alternatively been hypothesized to have a possible causal role in autism.	relevant	support
"No convincing evidence was found to support an association between the vaccine preservative thimerosal and autism, nor for the use of chelation therapy in autism."	relevant	oppose
"With decreasing uptake of immunizations in children and the inevitable occurrence of measles outbreaks, it is important that clinicians be aware of the literature concerning vaccinations and autism so that they may have informed discussions with parents and caregivers."	irrelevant	neutral
"In a study of 904 patients with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), it was found that during the period of measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (MMR) usage, no significant difference was found in the incidence of regression between MMR-vaccinated children and nonvaccinated children."	relevant	oppose
"Among the proportion and incidence of regression across the three MMR-program-related periods (before, during and after MMR usage), no significant difference was found between those who had received MMR and those who had not."	relevant	oppose
The data do not support an association between MMR and autism.	relevant	oppose
No association between measles vaccination and autism was shown by most of the current research studies.	relevant	oppose
"This study provides strong evidence against association of autism with persistent measles virus RNA in the gastrointestinal tract or with measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine exposure."	relevant	oppose
"For children diagnosed before a diagnosis of autism, the autism risk was lower in children who received MMR vaccine than in nonvaccinated children in a study conducted in Poland."	relevant	oppose
The study provides evidence against the association of autism with either MMR or a single measles vaccine.	relevant	oppose
"On Feb. 12, 2009, the “vaccine court” ruled in three test cases on the theory that MMR vaccine and the vaccine preservative thimerosal are linked to autism."	relevant	neutral
The court found that the scientific evidence is overwhelmingly contrary to this theory.	relevant	oppose
The risk of autism and other autism spectrum disorders did not differ significantly between children vaccinated with thimerosal-containing vaccine and children vaccinated with thimerosal-free vaccine.	relevant	oppose
The results do not support a causal relationship between childhood vaccination with thimerosal-containing vaccines and development of autistic-spectrum disorders.	relevant	oppose
No convincing evidence was found that early exposure to thimerosal had any deleterious effect on neurologic or psychological outcome.	relevant	oppose
"There was no trend toward an increase in the incidence of autism during that period when thimerosal was used in Denmark, up through 1990."	relevant	oppose
The discontinuation of thimerosal-containing vaccines in Denmark in 1992 was followed by an increase in the incidence of autism.	relevant	oppose
The data do not support a correlation between thimerosal-containing vaccines and the incidence of autism.	relevant	oppose
The data is not consistent with the hypothesis that increased exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccines is responsible for the apparent increase in the rates of autism in young children being observed worldwide.	relevant	support
The IOM's Committee on Immunization Safety Review was convened in the fall of 2000 to provide an independent review of increasingly prominent vaccine safety concerns.	relevant	neutral
The committee rejected a causal relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism as well as a causal relationship between thimerosal containing vaccines and autism.	relevant	oppose
"In a study by Fombonne, et al., which quantified thimerosal and MMR vaccine uptake in 28,000 Canadian children, the data rule out an association between pervasive developmental disorder and  1- or 2-dose measles-mumps-rubella vaccinations."	relevant	oppose
"Study compared early exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccines to 42 neuropsychological outcomes in 1,047 children between the ages of 7 and 10 years."	relevant	neutral
The study does not support a causal association between early exposure to mercury from thimerosal-containing vaccines and deficits in neuropsychological functioning at the age of 7 to 10 years.	relevant	oppose
"Study assessed blood mercury levels of 216 healthy children prior to immunization with thimerosal-containing vaccines, and 12 hours to 30 days after."	irrelevant	neutral
The blood mercury half-life was calculated to be 3.7 days and returned to prevaccination levels by day 30.	irrelevant	neutral
The blood half-life of intramuscular ethyl mercury from thimerosal in vaccines in infants is substantially shorter than that of oral methyl mercury in adults.	irrelevant	neutral
"Increased mercury levels were detected in stools after vaccination, suggesting that the gastrointestinal tract is involved in ethyl mercury elimination."	irrelevant	neutral
"Because of the differing pharmacokinetics of ethyl and methyl mercury, exposure guidelines based on oral methyl mercury in adults may not be accurate for risk assessments in children who receive thimerosal-containing vaccines."	relevant	neutral
Study analyzed autism client data from the California Department of Developmental Services between 1995 and 2007.	relevant	neutral
"Even though thimerosal was absent from scheduled childhood vaccines after 2002, cases of autism continued to climb quarter by quarter."	relevant	oppose
The California DDS data do not show any recent decrease in autism in California despite the exclusion of more than trace levels of thimerosal from nearly all childhood vaccines.	relevant	oppose
The data do not support the hypothesis that exposure to thimerosal during childhood is a primary cause of autism.	relevant	oppose
Researchers reviewed managed care organization records and conducted interviews with the parents of 256 children who were verified to have ASD according to a standardized personal evaluation.	relevant	neutral
Children with ASD were further categorized as having autistic disorder or ASD with regression.	irrelevant	neutral
"Another 752 children without autism, matched to the ASD children by birth year, gender and managed care organization, were also studied."	irrelevant	neutral
For none of the autism outcomes was prenatal or early life receipt of thimerosal-containing vaccines and immunoglobulins significantly greater among children with ASD than among children without ASD.	relevant	oppose
These results add to the evidence that thimerosalcontaining vaccines do not increase the risk of autism.	relevant	oppose
"The MMR vaccine was first alleged to be a cause of autism in 1998, when Dr. Andrew Wakefield, a British researcher, published a study in The Lancet claiming that the 12 children with neurodevelopmental delays (eight of whom had autism) he examined had the measles virus in their guts."	relevant	support
Serious ethical problems such as financial ties to trial lawyers and a skewed sample group brought the validity of the wakefield study which linked MMR vaccine to autism into question.	relevant	oppose
Subsequent studies have failed to replicate Dr. Wakefield's results of linking MMR vaccine to autism and he is currently facing professional misconduct charges as a result of this study in front of the United Kingdom's General Medical Council.	relevant	oppose
"Ten of the 13 original authors have since retracted their names from the paper, and The Lancet has discredited its findings, yet the controversy has continued despite the lack of science connecting the MMR vaccine to autism."	relevant	oppose
"A major study published in one of the world’s leading medical journals has concluded that there is no link between the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccination and autism in children."	relevant	oppose
"The findings from the study of a cohort of around 95,000 children will not surprise most scientists, who have been reassuring parents of the jab’s safety for 17 years, since the publication of now discredited research by the gastroenterologist Andrew Wakefield which originally linked MMR vaccine to autism"	relevant	oppose
But the belief that autism and vaccinations are linked continues to cause many parents to decide against having their children immunised.	relevant	support
"As a result there have been avoidable measles outbreaks, including one in the US last year, which began in Disneyland in California in December and led to school closures and quarantine measures."	irrelevant	neutral
"In all, 159 children were diagnosed with measles across 18 states."	irrelevant	neutral
"The repercussions continue, as US doctors attempt to bring in legislation to prevent parents opting out of vaccination for their children on the grounds of “personal belief”, while activists accuse scientists of being in the pockets of drug companies."	irrelevant	neutral
The study is published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (Jama).	irrelevant	neutral
"It sought to find out whether children who had older siblings with autism and therefore were at higher risk than most, were more likely to develop an autistic spectrum disorder themselves after having the MMR jab."	relevant	neutral
"They found no association between the MMR vaccine jab and autism, even among the high-risk children, and regardless of whether they had just the first shot, under the age of two, or the booster as well at around the age of five."	relevant	oppose
"The study included anonymised data from 95,727 privately insured children from across the US, 2% of whom had an older sibling with an autistic spectrum disorder (ASD)."	irrelevant	neutral
"The research team, led by Anjali Jain of the Lewin Group, Falls Church, Virginia, say that those families with a child already affected by autism may be less likely to have younger children vaccinated."	relevant	neutral
"“Families with a child affected by ASD may be particularly concerned about reports linking MMR and ASD, despite the lack of evidence,” they write."	relevant	oppose
“Surveys of parents who have children with ASD suggest that many believe the MMR vaccine was a contributing cause to autism.” 	relevant	support
"Following up the children in the study, funded by US government institutions, the team found that 994 had been diagnosed with autism, with a higher proportion (6.9%) in the high-risk group with older siblings with ASD than among the majority (0.9%)."	relevant	neutral
But whether or not they had been given MMR vaccination did not make a difference.	relevant	oppose
"“Controversy seems to follow autism like the tail on a kite,” says an editorial in the journal by Bryan H King of the University of Washington and Seattle children’s hospital."	irrelevant	neutral
"Since the 1950s, there have been disputes over what autism actually is and more recently there is the controversy over the rise in the number of children diagnosed with what is now classified as a spectrum disorder, he writes."	irrelevant	neutral
Each new prevalence estimate amplifies the urgency to better understand causation.	irrelevant	neutral
"The reluctance of some parents to vaccinate the younger siblings of children with the disorder could make it appear that there is less autism among children given the jab - not more, he says."	relevant	neutral
"“Even so, short of arguing that MMR actually reduces the risk of ASD in those who were immunised by age two years, the only conclusion that can be drawn from the study is that there is no signal to suggest a relationship between MMR and the development of autism in children with or without a sibling who has autism,” he writes."	relevant	oppose
No public health issue of recent years has attracted such heated debate as the question of whether the MMR vaccine can cause autism.	relevant	neutral
"The MMR jab combines three childhood vaccines, against measles, mumps and rubella, into one injection, which is first given to children at around 12-18 months."	irrelevant	neutral
"It has virtually eradicated these diseases from the UK, and throughout the world it has saved hundreds of lives."	irrelevant	neutral
"Recent years, however, have seen the rates of MMR vaccination decline."	irrelevant	neutral
"In some areas of the UK, only 60% of children are receiving MMR."	irrelevant	neutral
"This decline has already let to a rise in the number of measles infections, and there are fears of an epidemic outbreak."	irrelevant	neutral
The reason for all the concern over MMR is the suggestion that the vaccine might in fact be damaging some of the children it was supposed to protect by causing autism.	relevant	neutral
Scientists have been looking at the evidence to see whether there really is a link between autism and the vaccine.	relevant	neutral
The medical community has relied mainly on epidemiology - the statistical study of large populations.	irrelevant	neutral
These studies have overwhelmingly found no link between autism and MMR.	relevant	oppose
"Opponents claim that some of these studies might have flaws, but there are over a dozen epidemiological studies in different countries that use different techniques that have reached the same conclusion that MMR vaccine does not cause autism."	relevant	oppose
"At the very least, these studies show that the large increases in rates of autism that have been reported in many countries around the world cannot be due to MMR."	relevant	oppose
"However, the opponents of the vaccine point out that epidemiology can't rule out an increased risk to a small number of children - a vulnerable subset."	relevant	support
They pointed to distinctive features of some of the autistic children that they said was evidence of a possible connection with MMR.	relevant	support
"Firstly, these children seemed to have a novel bowel disease that was unique to children with autism; and in 2002 Wakefield, working with virologist Prof John O'Leary, claimed to have found the measles virus inside tissue samples from autistic children."	relevant	support
"Since then, debate has raged over these claims of linking MMR vaccine to autism."	relevant	neutral
The study therefore found no evidence of any link between MMR and autism.	relevant	oppose
"there's clear evidence that the MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) vaccine does not cause autism."	relevant	oppose
"Concern about a link between the MMR vaccine and autism began in 1998, after the British medical journal ""Lancet"" published a study connecting the vaccine with autism."	relevant	neutral
The researchers were investigating the theory that intestinal problems like Crohn's disease can result from viral infection and contribute to the development of autism who were vaccinated with MMR vaccine.	relevant	support
"In 2004 a much larger study in ""Lancet"" compared 1,294 children with autistic spectrum disorders with 4,469 unaffected children and found that the MMR vaccine doesn't raise the risk of autism or other autism spectrum disorders."	relevant	oppose
"Since then, many other studies have compared the incidence of autism in children who received the MMR vaccine and those who didn't, and have concluded that autism is not more common in vaccinated children."	relevant	oppose
Numerous reputable scientific studies involving hundreds of thousands of children have found no link between the MMR vaccine and autism.	relevant	oppose
Most experts now think autism may be at least partly genetic and point out that there's no plausible way for a vaccine to trigger it.	relevant	oppose
"After all, there's no known connection between autism and measles, mumps, or rubella."	relevant	oppose
"It doesn't make sense that a vaccine would cause a condition that the disease itself doesn't cause, since a vaccine is essentially a symptomless infection."	relevant	oppose
"Following the now refuted notion that MMR caused autism was the notion that thimerosal, an ethylmercury-containing preservative that was present in some vaccines, caused autism."	relevant	support
This concern has also been allayed by studies showing that children who received vaccines containing thimerosal were not at greater risk of autism than those who received the same vaccines without thimerosal.	relevant	oppose
Seven studies have now examined the relationship between thimerosal and autism and have concluded that thimerosal-containing vaccines do not cause autism either.	relevant	oppose
"In any case, thimerosal has been removed from all childhood vaccines except for some multi-dose preparations of the flu vaccine, so it's no longer a concern."	relevant	neutral
"More recently, some parents have been concerned that too many vaccines given too soon might cause autism."	relevant	support
"This concern, too, has been refuted by a recent study."	relevant	oppose
The vaccine-autism debate has been going on for years.	relevant	neutral
It has been a tale of shifting beliefs as child vaccination rates remain high.	relevant	neutral
"On February 1998, Andrew Wakefield, a British gastroenterologist and his colleagues published a paper that supposedly linked Autism to Vaccines."	relevant	support
"More specifically, Wakefield claimed that the MMR vaccine was responsible for intestinal inflammation that led to translocation of usually non-permeable peptides to the bloodstream and, subsequently, to the brain, where they affected development."	relevant	support
"His work was unpublished, and he lost his medical license despite the fact multiple studies seem to support Andrew Wakefield’s work."	relevant	support
"Wakefield has been labelled a fraud by the mainstream medical world, some experts claim that his research on linking MMR vaccine to autism and methods are weak and based on very little evidence ."	relevant	oppose
At the same time I must mention that multiple studies from around the world have concluded that there is no link between Autism and the MMR Vaccine.	relevant	oppose
MMR vaccine link to autism can become quite confusing a subject given that we have multiple medical studies contradicting each other.	relevant	neutral
Was Dr. Wakefield exposing something that the medical industry did not want you to know?	relevant	support
"It is known that vaccine manufacturers suppress harmful data regarding their product, as mentioned and illustrated earlier in the article."	relevant	support
"Regardless of the MMR vaccine and autism debate, there are still a number of studies that link vaccines to a possible autism connection."	relevant	support
"Please keep in mind that multiple courts worldwide have ruled in favour of vaccines causing autism, brain damage and other complications, that include the MMR vaccine."	relevant	support
A study has shown that giving the Hepatitis B vaccine to newborn baby boys could triple the risk of developing an autism spectrum disorder compared to boys who were not vaccinated as neonates.	relevant	support
"A study published by researchers at the Neural Dynamics Group, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences at the University of British Columbia determined that Aluminum, a highly neurotoxic metal and the most commonly used vaccine adjuvant may be a significant contributing factor to the rising prevalence of ASD in the Western World."	relevant	support
They showed that the correlation between ASD prevalence and the Aluminum adjuvant exposure appears to be the highest at 3-4 months of age.	relevant	support
The studies also show that children from countries with the highest ASD appear to have a much higher exposure to Aluminum from vaccines.	relevant	support
The study points out that several prominent milestones of brain development coincide with major vaccination periods for infants.	relevant	support
"These include the onset of synaptogenesis (birth), maximal growth velocity of the hippocampus and the onset of amygdala maturation."	irrelevant	neutral
"Furthermore, major developmental transition in many bio-behavioural symptoms such as sleep, temperature regulation, respiration and brain wave patterns, all of which are regulated by the neuroendocrine network."	irrelevant	neutral
"Many of these aspects of brain function are known to be impaired in autism, such as sleeping and brain wave patterns."	irrelevant	neutral
"According to the FDA, vaccines represent a special category of drugs as they are generally given to healthy individuals."	irrelevant	neutral
"While the FDA does set an upper limit for Aluminum in vaccines at no more that 850/mg/dose, it is important to note that this amount was selected empirically from data showing that Aluminum in such amounts enhanced the antigenicity of the vaccine, rather than from existing safety."	relevant	neutral
"Given that the scientific evidence appears to indicate that vaccine safety is not as firmly established as often believed, it would seem ill advised to exclude paediatric vaccinations as a possible cause of adverse long-term neurodevelopment outcomes , including those associated with autism."	relevant	support
"A study shows how researchers suspect one or more environmental triggers are needed to develop autism, regardless of whether individuals have a genetic predisposition or not."	relevant	neutral
They determined that one of those triggers for autism might be the “battery of vaccinations that young children receive.”	relevant	support
 Researchers found a positive and statistically significant relationship between autism and vaccinations.	relevant	support
"They determined that the higher the proportion of children receiving recommended vaccinations, the higher the prevalence of autism."	relevant	support
A 1 % increase in vaccination was associated with an additional 680 children having autism.	relevant	support
The results suggest that vaccines may be linked to autism and encourages more in depth study before continually administering these vaccines.	relevant	support
The Methodist Neurological Institute in Houston has shown that ASD is a disorder caused by a problem in brain development.	relevant	neutral
"They looked at B-cells and their sensitivity levels to thimerosal, a commonly used additive in many vaccines."	relevant	neutral
They determined that ASD patients have a heightened sensitivity to thimerosal which would restrict cell proliferation that is typically found after vaccination.	relevant	support
"The research shows that individuals who have this hypersensitivity to thimerosal could make them highly susceptible to toxins like thimerosal, and that individuals with a mild mitochondrial defect may be affected by thimerosal."	relevant	support
The fact that ASD patients’ B cells exhibit hypersensitivity to thimerosal tells us something.	relevant	support
A study determined that the autoimmunity to the central nervous system may play a causal role in autism.	relevant	support
"Researchers discovered that because many autistic children harbour elevated levels of measles antibodies, they should conduct a serological study of measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and myelin basic protein (MBP) autoantibodies."	relevant	support
They used serum samples of 125 autistic children and 92 controlled children.	irrelevant	neutral
Their analysis showed a significant increase in the level of MMR antibodies in autistic children.	relevant	support
The study concludes that the autistic children had an inappropriate or abnormal antibody response to MMR.	relevant	support
The study determined that autism could be a result from an atypical measles infection that produces neurological symptoms in some children.	relevant	support
"The source of this virus could be a variant of MV, or it could be the MMR vaccine."	relevant	support
"Study published in the Annals of Clinical Psychiatry suggests that Autism is likely triggered by a virus, and that measles virus (MV and/or MMR vaccine) might be a very good candidate."	relevant	support
It supports the hypothesis that a virus-driven autoimmune response may play a causal role in autism.	relevant	support
A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition determined that an increased vulnerability to oxidative stress and decreased capacity for methylation may contribute to the development and clinical manifestation of autism.	relevant	support
It’s well known that viral infections cause increased oxidative stress.	relevant	neutral
"Research suggests that metals, including those found in many vaccines are directly involved in increasing oxidative stress."	relevant	support
"A study published by the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Northeastern University, Boston determined that a novel growth factor signalling pathway that regulates methionine synthase(MS) activity and thereby modulates methylation reactions."	irrelevant	neutral
"The potent inhibition of this pathway by ethanol, lead, mercury, aluminum and thimerosal suggests that it may be an important target of neurodevelopmental toxins."	irrelevant	neutral
"The study expressed that if there is any link between autism and mercury, it is crucial that the first reports of the question are not falsely stating that no link occurs."	relevant	neutral
Researchers determined that a significant relation does exist between the blood levels of mercury and the diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder.	relevant	support
A study  noted that autistic spectrum disorders can be associated with mitochondrial dysfunction which can be caused by viral infections.	relevant	support
Researchers determined that children who have mitochondrial-related dysfunctional cellular energy metabolism might be more prone to undergo autistic regression between 18 and 30 months of age if they also have infections or immunizations at the same time.	relevant	support
A study conducted by Massachusetts General Hospital at the Centre for Morphometric Analysis by the department of Paediatric Neurology illustrates how autistic brains have a growth spurt shortly after birth and then slow in growth a few short years later.	relevant	neutral
Researchers have determined that neuroinflammation appears to be present in autistic brain tissue from childhood through adulthood.	relevant	neutral
"Oxidative stress, brain inflammation and microgliosis have been much documented in association with toxic exposures including various heavy metals."	relevant	neutral
A study conducted by the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Arkansas determined that thimerosal-induced cytotoxicity was associated with the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) in multiple cell lines.	irrelevant	neutral
"The study outlines how many vaccines have been neurotoxic, especially to the developing brain."	relevant	support
Depletion of GSH which can be caused by thimerosal  is commonly associated with autism.	relevant	support
"Although thimerosal has been removed from most children’s vaccines, it is still present in flu vaccines given to pregnant women, the elderly and to children in developing countries."	relevant	neutral
"A study published in the Public Library of Science (PLOS) determined that elevation in peripheral oxidative stress is consistent with, and may contribute to more severe functional impairments in the ASD group."	relevant	support
"We know that oxidative stress is triggered by heavy metals, like the ones contained in multiple vaccines."	relevant	support
"A study conducted by the University of Texas Health Science Center by the Department of Family and Community Medicine determined that for each 1,000 Ib of environmentally released mercury, there was a 43% increase in the rate of special education services and a 61% increase in the rate of autism."	relevant	neutral
Researchers emphasized that further research was needed regarding the association between environmentally released mercury and developmental disorders such as autism.	relevant	neutral
"A study determined that in light of the biological plausibility of mercury’s role in neurodevelopment disorders, the present study provides further insight into one possible mechanism by which early mercury exposures could increase the risk of autism."	relevant	support
"A study published in the Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health determined that mercury exposure can induce immune, sensory, neurological, motor and behavioural dysfunctions similar to traits defining or associated with ASDs."	relevant	support
"Based upon differential diagnoses, 8 of 9 patients examined were exposed to significant mercury from Thimerosal-containing vaccine preparations during their fetal/infant developmental periods."	relevant	support
These previously normal developing children suffered mercury encephalopathies that manifested with clinical symptoms consistent with regressive ASDs.	relevant	support
Evidence for mercury intoxication should be considered in the differential diagnosis as contributing to some regressive ASDs.	relevant	support
"A study published by the US National Library of Medicine conducted by the University of Texas Health Science Centre suspected that persistent low-dose exposures to various environmental toxicants including mercury, that occur during critical windows of neural development among genetically susceptible children, may increase the risk for developmental disorders such as autism."	relevant	neutral
"The animal model, which examines for the first time, behavioural, functional and neuromorphometric consequences of the childhood vaccine regimen, mimics certain neurological abnormalities of autism."	relevant	support
A study conducted by The George Washington University School of Public Health from the Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics determined that significantly increased rate ratios were observed for autism and autism spectrum disorders as a result of exposure to mercury from Thimerosal-containing vaccines.	relevant	support
"A study by Kinki University in Osaka, Japan determined that in combination with the brain pathology observed in patients diagnosed with autism, the present study helps to support the possible biological plausibility for how low-dose exposure to mercury from thimerosal-containing vaccines may be associated with autism."	relevant	support
A study published by the determined that vaccinations may be one of the triggers for autism.	relevant	support
Researchers discovered that substantial data demonstrates immune abnormality in many autistic children consistent with impaired resistance to infection caused due to vaccine.	relevant	support
"A study published in the journal Neurochemical Research determined that since excessive accumulation of extracellular glutamate is linked with excitotoxicity, data implies that neonatal exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccines might induce excitotoxic brain injuries, leading to neurodevelopmental disorders."	relevant	support
The MMR vaccine does not cause autism.	relevant	oppose
A number of very large scientific studies involving thousands of children have found no link between vaccines and autism.	relevant	oppose
One of those studies looked at more than half a million children in Denmark and found that the risk of developing autism was no different between children who were immunized and those who were not.	relevant	oppose
"Speculation about a possible link between vaccines and autism first appeared after the medical journal, The Lancet, published a study in 1998 that claimed to have found a link between the MMR vaccine and autism."	relevant	support
"After a comprehensive review, The Lancet retracted the article which claimed to have a found a link between MMR vaccine and autism, and concluded it was ""an elaborate fraud"", involving falsified data."	relevant	oppose
Another reason some people think that vaccines cause autism is because autistic children are often diagnosed at around the same time they get their shots.	relevant	oppose
"But just because things happen close together, it doesn’t mean they’re connected."	irrelevant	neutral
Vaccinating your child does not increase the risk that they'll be diagnosed with autism (or other developmental disorders).	relevant	oppose
"You won’t hear anything about it from the mainstream media, but the federal government’s kangaroo “vaccine court” has once again conceded, albeit quietly, that the combination measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine does, indeed, cause autism."	relevant	support
"In a recently published ruling, part of which was censored from public view, a young boy was awarded hundreds of thousands of dollars after it was determined that the MMR vaccine led to a confirmed diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder (ASD)."	relevant	support
"While the court and the government at large openly admitted that the MMR vaccine caused Ryan’s encephalitis, it did not make public its opinion on whether or not that encephalitis led to Ryan’s other injuries, including those that fall into the category of  autism spectrum disorder (ASD)."	relevant	support
"But the fact that these documents remain censored shows that the government is hiding something of importance from the public, which most definitely has to do with the connection between the MMR vaccine and autism."	relevant	support
Concerned parents everywhere were right all along: MMR vaccine can cause autism.	relevant	support
The government conceded that MMR vaccines led to Emily’s autism and other developmental problems.	relevant	support
"These two cases, combined with numerous published studies out of the U.S., South America, and Europe, prove that the MMR vaccine is not the harmless vaccine that the conventional medical industry claims it is."	relevant	support
"In fact, everything that Dr. Wakefield found back in the late 1990s concerning the MMR vaccine causing autism  are proving to be undeniably true."	relevant	support
"Measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, or MMR vaccine for short, is administered to all children in Singapore to prevent them from contracting any of these very painful diseases."	irrelevant	neutral
"This compulsory vaccine, MMR, has recently been ruled as the cause for autism by an Italian court."	relevant	support
"Essentially, the way a vaccine works is an injection of the weakened form of the virus, which stimulates the body to form memory cells that would result in a faster response if subjected to the same antigen."	irrelevant	neutral
"The MMR vaccine is a constituent of weakened form of the measles, mumps and rubella viruses."	irrelevant	neutral
The debate whether the MMR vaccine is safe has been going on for years.	relevant	neutral
The controversies surrounding the MMR vaccines have long preceded the autism saga with many people being wary of the vaccine due to the side effects that are related to it.	relevant	support
The side effects commonly retracted from this vaccination are a mild form of each disease.	irrelevant	neutral
Children could show light symptoms of measles or mumps.	irrelevant	neutral
More rare side effects usually are associated with certain allergies  and these side effects are the ones that are really harmful to the body.	irrelevant	neutral
"With regards to the MMR vaccine causing autism, there has been absolutely zero medical evidence that shows any correlation with the MMR vaccine and the increase in autism."	relevant	oppose
"In fact, this whole controversy of MMR vaccine causing autism was borne out of a fraudulent paper that has since resulted in the doctor allegedly being stripped of his license to practice for producing a fictional piece of work."	relevant	oppose
"The MMR vaccine has been proven to be a safe way for our children to protect themselves from the harms of measles, mumps and rubella ."	irrelevant	neutral
"In the largest-ever study of its kind, researchers again found that the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine did not increase risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD)."	relevant	neutral
There is no risk of MMR vaccine causing autism even among children already considered at high risk for this disorder.	relevant	oppose
"“Consistent with studies in other populations, we observed no association between MMR vaccination and increased autism risk,” the authors write."	relevant	oppose
“We also found no evidence that receipt of either one or two doses of MMR vaccination was associated with an increased risk of autism among children who had older siblings with autism.” 	relevant	oppose
The study showed no increased risk of autism with immunization at any age.	relevant	oppose
"In fact, autism rates were lower in the vaccinated groups."	relevant	oppose
"However, this migh also be because parents who see early signs of autism were more likely to delay or avoid MMR vaccination, the authors speculate."	relevant	neutral
"Some 15 year ago, a small, now-discredited study sparked concerns about a link between the MMR vaccine and autism."	relevant	oppose
"Since then, a large and growing body of research has continued to find no association between MMR vaccine and autism."	relevant	oppose
"Still, the continuing uncertainty around what does cause autism has left some people worried."	relevant	neutral
Such concerns likely explain why vaccination rates have dropped in families that have an older child with the autism disorder.	relevant	neutral
Studies have now shown that the age of onset of autism does not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated children.	relevant	oppose
Studies have now shown that the severity or course of autism does not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated children.	relevant	oppose
 The risk of autism recurrence in families does not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated children.	relevant	oppose
The difference in autism prevalence – between children with or without an older sibling affected by autism – is consistent with earlier studies.	irrelevant	neutral
The safety and effectiveness of MMR vaccines are under constant study.	irrelevant	neutral
"Because MMR vaccines are designed to be given routinely during well-child care visits, they must be extraordinarily safe."	irrelevant	neutral
"Safety testing begins as soon as a new vaccine is contemplated, continues until it is approved by the FDA, and is monitored indefinitely after licensure."	irrelevant	neutral
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) works closely with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to make recommendations for MMR vaccine use.	irrelevant	neutral
"Over the past decade, questions have been raised regarding a relationship between autism and MMR vaccines."	relevant	neutral
"Research has been conducted on all of these topics, and the studies continue to find MMR vaccines to be a safe and effective way to prevent serious disease."	relevant	oppose
These studies do not show any link between autism and MMR vaccine.	relevant	oppose
"The study of data on more than 1,000 children born between 1993 and 1997 looked at their vaccination schedules up to 1 year of age, and studied their performance 7 to 10 years later on 42 different neuropsychological outcomes."	irrelevant	neutral
Timely vaccination was associated with better performance on numerous outcomes.	irrelevant	neutral
The comparison of children vaccinated on time with children whose vaccinations were delayed or incomplete found no benefit in delaying immunizations during the first year of life.	irrelevant	neutral
"For parents who are concerned that children receive too many vaccines too soon, these data may provide reassurance that timely vaccination during infancy has no adverse effect on long-term neuropsychological outcomes."	relevant	oppose
Authors did not find any association between vaccination of children with inborn errors of metabolism and an increase in hospitalizations or emergency-department visits within 30 days of vaccination.	irrelevant	neutral
"On-time receipt of MMR vaccines is not associated with increased risk for serious adverse events in the 30 days after vaccination, even in children who have metabolism conditions."	irrelevant	neutral
This should provide reassurance that children with inborn errors of metabolism who are vaccinated routinely do not experience adverse effects.	irrelevant	neutral
"Results showed that more fevers and seizures did occur in children who had received the MMR vaccine, compared with children who had not received MMR vaccine."	irrelevant	neutral
Researchers traced subjects who developed gastrointestinal symptoms or signs lasting 24 hours or more at any time after MMR vaccination (apart from within the first hour).	irrelevant	neutral
Over a decade’s effort to detect all severe adverse events associated with MMR vaccine could find no data supporting the hypothesis that it would cause pervasive developmental disorder or inflammatory bowel disease.	relevant	oppose
"Researchers looked for a change in trend in autism incidence or age at diagnosis associated with the introduction of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination to the United Kingdom in 1988."	relevant	neutral
There was a steady increase in autism cases by year of birth with no sudden “step-up” or change in the trend line after the introduction of MMR vaccination.	relevant	oppose
There was no temporal association between onset of autism within 1 or 2 years after vaccination with MMR.	relevant	oppose
Data do not support a causal association between MMR vaccine and autism.	relevant	oppose
"Study compared prevalence of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination among children in the United Kingdom to rising prevalence of autism diagnoses for children."	relevant	neutral
The data provide evidence that no correlation exists between the prevalence of MMR vaccination and the rapid increase in the risk of autism over time.	relevant	oppose
Results provide further evidence against a causal association between MMR vaccination and autism.	relevant	oppose
"Scientists looked for correlation between increases in the rate of autism diagnoses and increases in the rate of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination in children born between 1980 and 1994."	relevant	neutral
These data do not suggest an association between MMR immunization among young children and an increase in autism occurrence.	relevant	oppose
"Study compared 96 children with a pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) born between 1992 and 1995 and who had received the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine, to PDD patients who did not receive MMR."	relevant	neutral
No evidence was found to support a distinct syndrome of MMR-induced autism or of “autistic enterocolitis.” 	relevant	oppose
These results add to the largescale epidemiologic studies that all failed to support an association between MMR and autism at population level.	relevant	oppose
These findings do not argue for changes in current MMR immunization programs and recommendations.	relevant	oppose
"The proportion of children with developmental regression (25% overall) or bowel symptoms (17%) did not change significantly during the 20 years from 1979, a period which included the introduction of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination in October 1988."	relevant	oppose
"Data provide no support for an MMR associated “new variant” form of autism with developmental regression and bowel problems, and further evidence against involvement of MMR vaccine in the initiation of autism."	relevant	oppose
"Study of 535,544 one  to seven year old children who were vaccinated between November 1982 and June 1986 in Finland does not support an association between measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination and encephalitis, aseptic meningitis or autism."	relevant	oppose
"The study compared relative risk of Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) in children vaccinated with measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine and unvaccinated children born in Denmark between 1991 and 1998."	relevant	neutral
"There was no association between the age at the time of vaccination, the time since vaccination, or the date of vaccination and the development of autism."	relevant	oppose
This study provides strong evidence against the hypothesis that MMR vaccination causes autism.	relevant	oppose
The proportion of parents attributing their child's autism to MMR appears to have increased since August 1997.	relevant	support
Data suggest that MMR vaccination is not associated with an increased risk of pervasive developmental disorders.	relevant	oppose
"The measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination rate in Yokohama declined significantly in the birth cohorts of years 1988-92, and no MMR vaccines were administered in 1993 or thereafter."	irrelevant	neutral
"MMR vaccination is not likely to be a main cause of autism, and cannot explain the rise over time in the incidence of autism."	relevant	oppose
Withdrawal of MMR in countries where it is still being used cannot be expected to lead to a reduction in the incidence of autism.	relevant	oppose
The IOM's Committee on Immunization Safety Review was convened in the fall of 2000 to provide an independent review of increasingly prominent MMR vaccine safety concerns.	relevant	neutral
The committee rejected a causal relationship between the MMR vaccine and autism as well as a causal relationship between thimerosal containing vaccines and autism.	relevant	oppose
