"The researchers conclude that ""the lack of effect of prophylactic vitamin C supplementation on the incidence of common cold in normal populations throws doubt on the utility of this wide practice."""	relevant	oppose
"In these prevention studies, those people who were given vitamin C and then caught a cold experienced a small reduction in the duration of the cold compared with those taking a placebo."	relevant	support
"The authors say that the clinical significance of this minor reduction ""is questionable, although the consistency of these findings points to a genuine biological effect."""	relevant	oppose
But the authors did find evidence that the vitamin could help prevent colds in people exposed to extreme physical exertion or cold weather.	relevant	support
"They found six studies in which the vitamin or a placebo was given to marathon runners, skiers and soldiers exposed to significant cold and/or physical stress."	relevant	neutral
"Those taking the vitamin experienced, on average, a 50% reduction in common cold incidence."	relevant	support
The authors found seven trials (all in adults) evaluating whether vitamin C taken when their symptoms started would shorten the cold.	relevant	neutral
"When they looked at all seven studies together, they found no benefit from taking the vitamin."	relevant	oppose
"But in one of the seven trials, patients took a single very high dose of the vitamin (8 g) on the day their symptoms started and experienced a shorter illness compared with people who took a placebo pill."	relevant	support
"Researchers have found that zinc is the best supplement for warding off colds, while Vitamin C is likely to be a waste of money."	relevant	oppose
Britons are wasting million of pounds buying Vitamin C supplements to ward off colds after researchers found they have no benefit at all.	relevant	oppose
Academics who looked back at 67 studies examining the effectiveness of cold preventions and remedies discovered that few live up to the hype.	relevant	oppose
"Traditional remedies like echinacea, ginseng, vapour rubs and cough medicine were found to have no clear benefits while antibiotics were likely to cause more harm than good, the researchers concluded."	irrelevant	neutral
"Out of all the studies, only taking a zinc supplement was found to be beneficial at preventing colds."	relevant	oppose
Drugs like ibuprofen and paracetamol were found to be useful at reducing fever and taking honey soothed a sore throat.	irrelevant	neutral
Vitamin C became popular in the Seventies after Nobel laureate Linus Pauling concluded it could prevent and alleviate colds.	relevant	support
It is the UK’s most popular vitamin with annual sales of around £36 million.	irrelevant	neutral
It is a dietary antioxidant and so can neutralise the effects of free radicals and support the immune system's host defence.	relevant	support
However a recent Cochrane review found that regular Vitamin C supplements had no effect on common cold incidence although it may shorten the time the disease lasts.	relevant	support
"Large doses of Vitamin C are also likely to cause nausea, diarrhoea and stomach cramps."	irrelevant	neutral
"Taking vitamin C to ward off a cold only helps if you exercise regularly, new research suggests."	relevant	support
Finnish researchers have found takking drinks rich in vitamin C - such such as orange juice - makes no difference to couch potatoes for preventing cold.	relevant	oppose
"But in people who work out, vitamin C can halve the risk and even help get rid of the sniffles."	relevant	support
"The researchers discovered that it halved the risk of catching a cold among people under short term physical stress, such as exercise."	relevant	support
And male teenage swimmers who caught a cold and were treated with the supplement shook off their illness twice as quickly as boys who didn't take the vitamin.	relevant	support
"The researchers also found that children also appear to be more responsive to the vitamin than adults, with a daily one gram dose slashing the average duration of colds in children by 18 per cent and in adults by 8 per cent."	relevant	support
" In most cases, vitamin C supplements won't help prevent colds."	relevant	oppose
"However, taking vitamin C before the onset of cold symptoms may shorten the duration of symptoms."	relevant	support
"Vitamin C may provide benefit for people at high risk of colds due to frequent exposure: for example, children who attend group child care during the winter."	relevant	support
"""Research has found no evidence that vitamin C prevents colds,"" says Dr Hasmukh Joshi, vice-chair of the Royal College of GPs."	relevant	oppose
"In 2013, an updated review of studies into vitamin C and the common cold concluded that ""regular ingestion of vitamin C had no effect on common cold incidence in the ordinary population""."	relevant	oppose
"The review results suggested that vitamin C might help prevent colds in people exposed to short periods of intense physical activity, such as marathon runners or skiers, but not in the general population."	relevant	oppose
A daily dose of vitamin C did slightly reduce the length and severity of colds in the ordinary population.	relevant	support
"When it comes to flu, one person in three believes that taking vitamin C can cure the flu virus."	irrelevant	neutral
"The common cold affects people worldwide, not just those who live in cold climates."	irrelevant	neutral
"There are over 200 viruses that are associated with the common cold and it affects people worldwide, not just those living in wintry places."	irrelevant	neutral
Scientists have taken an interest in vitamin C since the early 1930s.	irrelevant	neutral
"The study of vitamin C became very popular after Linus Pauling, a Nobel Laureate in chemistry, claimed that it prevented many different diseases, including the common cold."	relevant	support
Vitamin C is typically used by many Canadians to both prevent and treat (or manage) the common cold.	relevant	support
Vitamin C is believed to have protective effects on body cells when there is an infection.	relevant	support
This may result in reducing the number of infections as well as their severity.	relevant	support
An examination of the scientific evidence based on humans will help us assess the value of using vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold.	relevant	neutral
"A recently updated Cochrane systematic review evaluated the benefits of vitamin C and the common cold in three areas as a: regular supplement to prevent the common cold (frequency) regular supplement to reduce the duration and severity of symptoms, and treatment, once a cold was present to reduce the duration and severity of symptoms Prevent getting the common cold while taking vitamin C as a regular supplement. "	relevant	neutral
 The studies evaluating prevention showed that adults taking vitamin C daily did not decrease the number of colds  relative to those taking a placebo.	relevant	oppose
"The review found that people who do regular and intense physical exercise in cold weather (soldiers, skiers, marathon runners) and take vitamin C regularly did have a 48% decrease in the frequency of colds."	relevant	support
 The research findings suggest that taking vitamin C taken regularly as a supplement can affect the number of days (duration) you suffer with the cold.	relevant	support
"There was a decrease in the number of days that the cold affected people; specifically, a decrease of 8% in adults (17 studies, 7215 participants) was shown."	relevant	support
If the average cold lasts 8 to 10 days then you will feel like your cold has stopped about one day sooner when you take vitamin C regularly.	relevant	support
 The research evaluated a smaller number of studies (where people had a cold and then started taking vitamin C and showed that it makes no difference for the duration (7 studies) or severity of symptoms (four studies).	relevant	oppose
"There were two studies where the participants took 'mega' doses of vitamin C at the start of the cold (i.e., taking very large doses of vitamin C)."	relevant	neutral
Taking a higher dose may decrease the duration of a cold by about half a day.	relevant	support
Should we take vitamin C to help once a cold has started?	irrelevant	neutral
The research thus far does not show any important benefit for the duration or severity of symptoms once a cold has started.	relevant	oppose
"Although promising, we are not yet certain if taking larger doses of vitamin C makes any real difference once a cold has started."	relevant	neutral
Taking vitamin C regularly as a supplement doesn't prevent the number of colds (frequency) in adults but may help with the duration and severity once it is started.	relevant	support
Taking vitamin C as a treatment at the beginning of a cold doesn't make any important difference with the duration and severity of symptoms.	relevant	oppose
More research is needed to evaluate the benefits or harms of taking mega-doses of vitamin C as a treatment once a cold has started.	relevant	neutral
It’s not necessarily a stretch to assume vitamin C might be protective against colds.	relevant	support
"Vitamin C is an antioxidant vitamin that helps protect cells against free radical damage, the destruction that happens when cells are exposed to oxygen, and essentially causes cells to “rust.”"	irrelevant	neutral
Vitamin C also supports healthy immune function.	relevant	neutral
This partially explains why Linus Pauling believed vitamin C could prevent colds.	relevant	support
You need a healthy immune system to fight off cold viruses.	relevant	neutral
"Back in the 1970s, a small study supported Dr. Pauling’s belief that vitamin C wards off colds."	relevant	support
"This study found kids living at a skiing camp in the Swiss Alps who took 1,000 milligrams of vitamin C daily had fewer colds than a placebo group who didn’t."	relevant	support
"Since then, study after study has looked at whether or not vitamin C prevents colds with inconsistent results."	relevant	neutral
"Although not consistent, the evidence as a whole, suggests Linus Pauling was wrong and if there is a benefit to taking vitamin C for cold prevention, it’s small."	relevant	oppose
"Before you assume that vitamin C is worthless, there may be a small benefit to getting higher doses of vitamin C when you feel the symptoms of a cold coming on."	relevant	support
A study carried out in 2010 found participants taking vitamin C daily had less severe cold symptoms but only if they started taking vitamin C prior to developing cold symptoms.	relevant	support
"According to some studies, taking vitamin C may also reduce the duration of the common cold by a day or two."	relevant	support
Where vitamin C might be the most useful is after exposure to unusual stress or cold exposure.	relevant	support
"For example, some studies show supplementing with vitamin C before and after extreme physical exertion, like running a marathon, DOES lower the risk of developing a cold by up to half."	relevant	support
"So, if you have a marathon in your future, it might be smart to increase your vitamin C intake."	relevant	support
"Despite the fact that your body can self-regulate vitamin C by eliminating the excess, high doses of vitamin C can overwhelm the system and potentially lead to side effects, the most common of which are stomach cramps, nausea, and diarrhea."	irrelevant	neutral
"Vitamin C supplements also increase the risk for kidney stones, a particularly painful condition to have."	irrelevant	neutral
"As you can see, the potential downsides to taking vitamin C supplements are greater than the benefits of doing so."	irrelevant	neutral
There simply isn’t enough evidence that vitamin C prevents colds.	relevant	oppose
"Even if it does shorten the duration of colds or lessen the symptoms, the benefits aren’t dramatic."	relevant	oppose
"When you weigh the benefits and downsides, the scales tip strongly towards not taking high-dose vitamin C. "	relevant	oppose
Overwhelming evidence shows that vitamin C prevents common colds and reduces a colds severity and duration.	relevant	support
"Dr. Pauling, a strong proponent of using vitamin C to prevent and treat colds, wrote the definitive book on the subject."	irrelevant	neutral
"In the years since Pauling and Klenner, research has reconfirmed that vitamin C is the safest, cheapest and most effective way to fight the common cold."	relevant	support
 Gorton and Jarvis conducted a controlled study of 715 subjects to investigate the effect of mega dose vitamin C in preventing and relieving cold and flu symptoms.	irrelevant	neutral
The results of this study were that flu and cold symptoms in the test group treated with Vitamin C decreased by 85% compared to the control group.	relevant	support
"The authors also mentioned that, ""For more than 30 years vitamin C in mega dose quantities has been recognized as an effective agent against colds and flu."""	relevant	support
"Even more recently, Van Straten and Josling found that subjects receiving a vitamin C supplement for 60 days during winter C had significantly fewer colds as compared to placebo."	relevant	support
"And if they did get a cold, it was of shorter duration and less severe than those in the placebo group."	relevant	support
The authors concluded that vitamin C was effective in fighting off common cold.	relevant	support
The best way to prevent a cold is to take plenty of vitamin C. 	relevant	support
"If you feel a cold coming on, take 2,000 mg of vitamin C every waking hour and continue this dosage until the cold is gone."	relevant	support
Taking large quantities of vitamin C lessens the duration of the cold and its symptoms.	relevant	support
"Vitamin C strengthens connective tissue, increasing resistance to viral invasion."	relevant	support
"Vitamin C also strengthens the bodys immune system, neutralizes free radicals, and kills viruses."	relevant	support
"These four important functions of vitamin C work together to safely and effectively reduce the frequency, severity, and duration of a cold."	relevant	support
"Unfortunately however, although commonly thought to, Vitamin C does not offer a great deal of protection against the common cold."	relevant	oppose
Another role vitamin C plays is with promoting a strong immune system and helping to build collagen.	irrelevant	neutral
"This collagen acts as the stabilizing tissue in the bone, muscle and skin."	irrelevant	neutral
"A lot has changed in the past 70 years, and as the popularity of Vitamin C continues to escalate, there seems to be more and more confusion regarding how much of it we should be taking."	relevant	neutral
"Vitamin C also acts as an antioxidant in the body, which will help to protect against the cell-damaging free radicals that we sometimes come in contact with."	irrelevant	neutral
"Without enough of this antioxidant protection, mostly taken in the form of fruits and vegetables, you will find yourself at a higher health risk for a larger number of diseases and health conditions."	irrelevant	neutral
Researchers have been studying the role vitamin C plays in preventing and treating the common cold for more than 60 years.	relevant	neutral
"While research abounds, most experts say there is still little proof that increasing vitamin C intake will help cut down on sick days."	relevant	oppose
One study did find that taking a daily vitamin C supplement reduced the frequency of catching a cold Effect of vitamin C on common cold: randomized controlled trial.	relevant	support
"Another study found that vitamin C made a big difference in preventing colds among people exposed to brief periods of intense cold or “extreme” physical exercise (like skiers, military personnel, and marathon runners), but not among the general population."	relevant	oppose
And another study suggests upping vitamin C intake could reduce the severity and duration of a cold — and hopefully erase the need for that economy-size tissue box.	relevant	support
"As we've shown, the research on vitamin C as a sickness-fixer is mixed, though many professionals maintain that it's not an effective treatment for the sniffles."	relevant	neutral
"Contrary to popular belief, mega-doses of vitamin C are not the best way to get over a cold."	relevant	oppose
"While vitamin C supplementation does support the immune system in some people, once you have a cold, it will not help you get over it faster."	relevant	oppose
"According to a review by Cochrane of 30 randomized trials involving more than 11,000 adults, for the general population, supplementation with vitamin C doesn't reduce the incidence of colds or upper respiratory tract infections in most adults."	relevant	oppose
"However, for people under extreme stress, or who don't consume an adequate amount of fruits and vegetables, supplementation does appear to offer some protective benefits, and lower their risk of colds."	relevant	support
"Regardless, the review found that once cold symptoms show up, taking a therapeutic dose of vitamin C will not affect the duration or severity of the common cold."	relevant	oppose
"Companies like Airborne, which sell therapeutic doses of vitamin C, have been successfully sued for false advertising, and no longer use claims that they can prevent or cure common colds."	relevant	oppose
"Few things have stirred the imagination and hopes of the public in matters of nutrition or vexed nutrition scientists as much as Linus Pauling's 1970 book, Vitamin C and the Common Cold."	irrelevant	neutral
"The book's main claim was that taking 1 gram (1,000 mg) of vitamin C daily would reduce the incidence of colds by 45% for most people, but that some persons might need much larger amounts."	relevant	support
"It recommended that if symptoms of a cold do start, you should take 500 or 1,000 mg every hour for several hours."	relevant	support
"Without question, publication of this book, combined with Pauling's reputation as a Nobel Prize-winning scientist, has made vitamin C a best seller."	irrelevant	neutral
"Pauling himself reportedly took 12,000 mg daily and raised it to 40,000 mg when symptoms of a cold appeared!"	irrelevant	neutral
"Also, the vast majority of reputable medical and nutritional scientists strongly disagree with him."	relevant	oppose
Experimental studies of the possible value of vitamin C in the prevention of infections have been conducted by medical investigators ever since preparations of the pure crystalline vitamin became commercially available during the 1930s.	irrelevant	neutral
"By 1982, about thirty of these were reported and the majority of medical scientists had concluded that supplementation with vitamin C does not prevent colds and, at best, may slightly reduce the symptoms of a cold."	relevant	oppose
"So far, at least 30 experiments have tested the ability of vitamin C to protect against colds in large groups of people."	relevant	neutral
"Four biomedical scientists who have analyzed the results of these trials have found Pauling's claims unsupported, except for slight reduction in severity, in most of those trials that were scientifically properly designed and executed ."	relevant	oppose
One way to test whether high-dosage vitamin C prevents colds is to inoculate the throats of volunteers with cold viruses.	irrelevant	neutral
Two studies of this type found that everyone got colds whether they took vitamin C or not.	relevant	oppose
"All of the volunteers whether they received Vitamin C or not, got colds, which were of equal severity ."	relevant	oppose
The Coulehan team reported in 1974 that the vitamin C group had less severe colds.	relevant	support
The children receiving vitamin C averaged 0.38 colds per person while the placebo group averaged 0.37.	relevant	neutral
The average duration of the colds was 5.5 days in the vitamin C group and 5.8 in the placebo group.	relevant	neutral
"Thus, in this test, vitamin C neither prevented colds nor shortened their duration ."	relevant	oppose
"In 1979, Dr. Coulehan published his analysis of vitamin C versus the common cold and concluded that extra vitamin C is not worth taking ."	relevant	oppose
"This study was designed to test Pauling's claims that ingestion of 1,000 mg of vitamin C daily would reduce the frequency of colds by 45% and the total days of illness by 60%."	irrelevant	neutral
"In the vitamin group, 74% had one or more colds during the study period while 82% of the placebo group had one or more colds."	relevant	support
"No difference in the incidence of colds was found among the groups taking no vitamin C, 250 mg, 1,000 mg or 2,000 mg daily."	relevant	oppose
"No reduction in the incidence of colds was observed, but those taking vitamin C averaged less time at home (1.62 vs. 1.12 days indoors)."	relevant	support
"Taken together, the Anderson studies suggest that extra vitamin C nay slightly reduce the severity of colds, but that it is not necessary to take the high dosages suggested by Pauling to achieve this result."	relevant	oppose
Nor is there anything to be gained by taking vitamin supplements year-round in the hope of preventing colds.	relevant	oppose
"The number of colds per person, the duration of colds and their severity were the same in both vitamin and placebo groups ."	relevant	oppose
The recipients were nonsmoking men testing negative for antibodies to the RV16 type cold virus.	irrelevant	neutral
"Of these, 12 trials showed no prevention and no reduction in duration or severity, five trials showed no prevention and only slight, statistically nonsignificant lessening of severity, and the other five trials reported no prevention and a small but significant in reduction of duration of the colds."	relevant	neutral
"Dr. Truswell concluded: ""It is now fairly clear that for preventing colds, vitamin C has no worthwhile effect,"" but he believed that: ""There is thus a little more evidence for a small therapeutic effect of ascorbic acid (vitamin C)."	relevant	oppose
"Anderson's second trial in 1974 revealed 250 mg of vitamin per day reduced severity of cold as much as did 1,000 mg or 4, 000 mg ."	relevant	neutral
"The many studies done in the last 30 years clearly prove that daily vitamin C supplements, whether 100 mg or 5,000 mg, do not prevent colds and provide, but only for some people, only a slight reduction in duration and severity of colds."	relevant	oppose
"Dr. Thomas Chalmers concluded in 1975: ""I, who have colds as often and as severe as those of any man, do not consider the very minor potential benefit that might result from taking vitamin C three times a day for life worth either the effort or the risk, no matter how slight the latter might be."""	relevant	oppose
"If you choose to supplement when a cold strikes, there is no reason to take more than 250 mg per day, as shown in the 1974 Anderson study."	relevant	support
"Supplementation with larger amounts of vitamin C has not been shown to be more effective, and it may cause diarrhea or have other adverse effects."	relevant	oppose
"Vitamin C really doesn't seem to help prevent a cold, but there's much evidence to suggest that taking high doses of C may help shorten the time you're sick by a day or so."	relevant	support
Vitamin C acts as an antihistamine and anti-inflammatory to help dry up a runny nose.	relevant	support
"However, some physicians recommend taking several grams a day in divided doses at the first sign of a scratchy throat or stuffy nose."	relevant	support
"A series of investigations regarding whether or not Vitamin C has a significant impact upon fighting off the common cold began in 1970 with the book, Vitamin C and the Common Cold, by Linus Pauling."	irrelevant	neutral
Pauling promoted the idea that large megadoses of Vitamin C could reduce both the duration and severity of the common cold.	relevant	support
Vitamin C Reduces the Duration and Severity of the Common Cold with an initial megadose of 6000mg.	relevant	support
"A 1999 study published in the Journal of Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics assessed the impact of Vitamin C megadoses upon the incidence, duration and severity of the common cold amongst 252 students at a technical training facility in Santiago, Chile."	irrelevant	neutral
"The researchers compared the duration and severity of the cold symptoms in the students that received the vitamin C megadose to students that did not, and found that there was a 85% decrease in cold symptom severity and duration following the megadose."	relevant	support
"Amongst the 21 studies they concluded that there was no effect of Vitamin C supplementation upon the incidence of the common cold, but that there was a significant dose dependent impact upon the severity and duration of the cold."	relevant	support
They found a 29% decrease in severity of common cold symptoms for groups that increased their intake from 1000mg to 2000-4000mg throughout the duration of their cold.	relevant	support
Similarly they found a 17% decrease in the duration of the common cold amongst participants that consumed 6000mg/day.	relevant	support
This study demonstrated that doses of Vitamin C greater than 1000mg confer a beneficial response in battling the duration and severity of the common cold.	relevant	support
A 2006 study published in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition split up patients with atrophic gastritis into a low-dose Vitamin C group (receiving 50mg/day) and a high-dose Vitamin C group (receiving 500mg/day) and followed their self-reported incidences of the common cold over a 5-year period.	irrelevant	neutral
"They found that the incidence of the common cold for the low-dose group (9.2%) was higher than that for the high-dose group (3.2%), suggesting that a higher daily dose of Vitamin C influences a lower incidence of the common cold (as we would expect by now)."	relevant	support
"While the results of this study should be interpreted with caution considering that the data was based upon self-reported cases of the cold, it nonetheless demonstrates the protective effect of Vitamin C upon the frequency of catching the common cold."	relevant	support
"After reviewing this evidence it appears that there are possible health benefits from taking Vitamin C supplements if you are concerned about becoming plagued by the common cold, but it is important to take note that the effects of supplementation are not the same for everyone!"	relevant	neutral
Studies suggest that certain subpopulations could benefit more than others from Vitamin C supplementation.	relevant	support
Taking vitamin C has long been a conventional approach to preventing and fighting a cold.	relevant	support
This concept was made popular in 1970 when Nobel Prize winner Linus Pauling recommended taking much more of the vitamin in his book Vitamin C and the Common Cold.	irrelevant	neutral
"In the years since the publication of Pauling's popular book, researchers have found inconclusive evidence supporting his claim that Vitamin C has a significant effect on preventing and fighting colds."	relevant	oppose
"Experts from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), suggest that vitamin C does not prevent you from catching a cold at all, but it may slightly reduce the duration of the cold if taken regularly."	relevant	support
A study by scientists from the University of Helsinki suggests that vitamin C is most effective for active people who exercise regularly by helping reduce sniffles and the amount of time a cold lasts.	relevant	support
"That means that chances are still high that you may get sick during cold season, but your cold symptoms may not last as long if you eat fruits and vegetables rich in vitamin C, and exercise regularly."	relevant	support
"If you take at least 0.2 grams of vitamin C every day, you're not likely to have fewer colds, but they may end a day or two quicker."	relevant	support
"Higher doses of vitamin C (greater than 2,000 milligrams per day) may cause kidney stones, nausea, and diarrhea."	relevant	oppose
Vitamin C became popular in the Seventies after Nobel laureate Linus Pauling concluded it could prevent and alleviate colds.	irrelevant	neutral
A Cochrane review earlier this year found that regular vitamin C supplements had no effect on common cold incidence.	relevant	oppose
Regular high doses had a “modest” effect on the duration of cold symptoms.	relevant	support
Regular supplements do not prevent colds in most people but they seem to reduce the severity of cold symptoms.	relevant	support
"The NHS advises not to take more than 1,000mg daily."	relevant	neutral
Vitamin C supplements can be dangerous for people with diabetes and certain other conditions.	relevant	oppose
Vitamin C has long been touted for its supposed ability to treat the common cold.	irrelevant	neutral
"When sickness sets in, many of us immediately turn to vitamin C products such as supplement pills, juices, and cough drops."	irrelevant	neutral
Most scientists agree that vitamin C is not an effective treatment for the common cold.	relevant	oppose
Today’s popular belief that vitamin C can treat the common cold originated from claims made by influential American chemist Linus Pauling during the 1960s.	irrelevant	neutral
"Pauling said that after regularly taking high doses of vitamin C, he felt “livelier and healthier” and no longer experienced cold symptoms."	relevant	support
"By the mid-1970s, an estimated 50 million Americans were using vitamin C to treat colds, and drugstore sales of vitamin C products had quadrupled."	relevant	neutral
Subjects who received vitamin C pills took approximately 30 fewer disability days off from work compared to those who did not take the pills.	relevant	support
"According to the researchers, one possible explanation is that vitamin C lowers the severity of cold symptoms, such as chills and coughs."	relevant	support
" In one study, subjects in a high-stress subgroup who took vitamin C supplements experienced a 50 percent reduction in incidence of the common cold."	relevant	support
"In fact, at least 15 other studies can corroborate the results published by University of Toronto researchers, debunking the vitamin C myth by uncovering evidence against it."	relevant	oppose
"Two sets of volunteers, one group who was given Vitamin C pills and one group who was given placebo pills, were infected  with a cold virus and it was found that all of the volunteers developed colds with similar symptoms and durations."	relevant	oppose
"Leading medical advisory groups including the Food and Drug Administration, the American Medical Association, and the American Dietetic Association do not recommend supplemental vitamin C to prevent or treat colds."	relevant	oppose
Washing hands frequently and avoiding close contact with people who are sick can help prevent the spread of germs.	irrelevant	neutral
"Over the years, Vitamin C was claimed to either prevent or cure common colds."	irrelevant	neutral
"These claims were not proven to be scientifically true, but what is known and proven is that an adequate intake of vitamin C does play a vital role in fighting infection."	irrelevant	neutral
"Recent studies have revealed that vitamin C didn't keep colds at bay for most people, but was found to reduce the duration of a cold when taken at the onset of symptoms."	relevant	support
"On the other hand, vitamin C acts as a preventive measure to highly fit people in conditions of extreme cold (results based mostly on marathon runners), as it was shown to cut the risk of getting a cold in half!"	relevant	support
Women need 60mg of vitamin C daily.	irrelevant	neutral
"For smokers, the recommended intake is 35mg/day higher than for nonsmokers, because smokers are under increased oxidative stress from the toxins in cigarette smoke and generally have lower blood levels of vitamin C. "	irrelevant	neutral
"Despite exhaustive research across the world, there is still no strong evidence to prove that Vitamin C prevents common cold."	relevant	neutral
"Some studies have shown that taking large doses of vitamin C (more than 1,000 mg per day) continuously or when you first develop cold symptoms, may ease some of the symptoms and the duration."	relevant	support
Vitamin C does not prevent you catching a cold.	relevant	oppose
"Vitamin C supplementation has also been shown to enhance several physiological aspects of the immune response, but these studies do not prove that vitamin C reduces your susceptibility to the cold."	relevant	oppose
"Much research has been done exploring the effectiveness of vitamin C in reducing incidence, duration, and severity of the common cold and other respiratory infections."	irrelevant	neutral
"Overall, current evidence does not suggest that vitamin C supplementation reduces the incidence or severity of cold in healthy individuals, even at high doses."	relevant	neutral
"However, vitamin C supplementation does drastically reduce the incidence of cold under high-stress conditions such as intense exercise or subarctic temperatures."	relevant	support
"While incidence of cold was not reduced with supplements, the duration of cold does seem to be significantly shortened with additional vitamin C, a feature most of us would take in a heartbeat when feeling under the weather."	relevant	support
"To summarize, while large doses of vitamin C are probably not effective for reducing incidence of cold, deficiencies can make you more susceptible."	relevant	oppose
"Moreover, when under stressful conditions such as extreme exercise or cold temperatures, additional vitamin C may help strengthen your resistance to respiratory infection."	relevant	support
"When you're sniffling and sneezing from a cold, you may be tempted to reach for a bottle of vitamin C pills or drink some orange juice."	irrelevant	neutral
"You can get vitamin C when you eat fruits and veggies, especially oranges and other citrus fruits."	irrelevant	neutral
"Overall, experts find little to no benefit if you use vitamin C to prevent or treat a cold."	relevant	oppose
"In 2010, researchers looked at all studies and found that taking vitamin C every day did not prevent the number of colds that a person got."	relevant	oppose
In some cases vitamin C made cold symptoms improve.	relevant	support
"However, vitamin C didn't help if people took it after they showed signs of getting cold."	relevant	oppose
"People in extremely good physical condition, such as marathon runners, who took vitamin C every day cut their risk of catching a cold in half."	relevant	support
"If you take at least 0.2 grams of vitamin C every day, you're not likely to have fewer colds, but they may end a day or two quicker."	relevant	support
"In general, vitamin C won't harm you if you get it by eating food like fruits and veggies."	irrelevant	neutral
"For most people, it's also OK if you take supplements in the recommended amount."	irrelevant	neutral
"Vitamin C burst into prominence back in the 1970s, when Nobel Prize-winning scientist Linus Pauling claimed that high doses could stop cancer and might be the long-sought cure for the common cold."	relevant	support
"Alas, neither claim has quite held up under scrutiny."	relevant	oppose
Vitamin C doesn’t prevent colds.	relevant	oppose
Nor does taking large doses slow or stop cancer.	irrelevant	neutral
"There are still many sound reasons to get plenty of C. Researchers have long known that vitamin C is an essential building block of collagen, the structural material for bone, skin, blood vessels and other tissue."	irrelevant	neutral
"Failing to get enough vitamin C causes inflammation of the gums, scaly skin, nosebleed, painful joints and other problems associated with scurvy."	irrelevant	neutral
"In addition, many studies show that eating foods rich in C can reduce the risk of developing cancer, particularly cancers that strike the mouth and digestive tract, according to Jane Higdon, a nutrition scientist at the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University."	irrelevant	neutral
"Vitamin C is a potent antioxidant, able to neutralize unstable oxygen molecules that might otherwise damage DNA."	irrelevant	neutral
"Recent findings suggest it may also protect against Helicobacter pylori, bacteria linked to both stomach cancer and ulcers."	irrelevant	neutral
A 2003 study at the San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center reported that people with high blood levels of vitamin C are less likely to test positive for infection by H. pylori.	irrelevant	neutral
The vitamin appears to inhibit bacterial growth.	irrelevant	neutral
Vitamin C is also proving to be friendly to the heart and arteries.	irrelevant	neutral
"Analyzing data from more than 85,000 women in the Nurses Health Study, researchers at Children’s Hospital, Boston, reported in 2003 that those with the highest intake of C had the lowest risk of heart disease over a 16-year period."	irrelevant	neutral
"Here, too, the antioxidant effect may be at work, preventing damage to artery walls that can promote cholesterol buildup."	irrelevant	neutral
But vitamin C seems to protect in other ways as well.	irrelevant	neutral
"In 2004, scientists from the University of Oslo reported that after volunteers ate two or three vitamin-C-rich kiwis a day for 28 days, platelets in their blood were less likely to clump together and form small blood clots that can jam arteries and lead to heart attack or stroke."	irrelevant	neutral
"Eating kiwis also lowered triglycerides, or fats in the blood, by 15 percent, an effect that scientists credit to kiwis’ vitamin C, E and polyphenol content."	irrelevant	neutral
Getting plenty of C may be especially important for pregnant moms and infants.	irrelevant	neutral
"Last year a study in Seoul, South Korea, reported higher birth weights among babies born to mothers with high vitamin C levels."	irrelevant	neutral
This year a report in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition suggests that vitamin C in breast milk may reduce the risk of allergic dermatitis in predisposed infants.	irrelevant	neutral
"The current recommended daily intake for men is 90 mg and for women it is 75 mg. “Don’t waste your money on megadoses of vitamin C,” says Higdon."	irrelevant	neutral
"A National Institutes of Health study showed that the body can only absorb a maximum of about 400 milligrams a day; more than that simply washes out of the system (the upper tolerable limit for vitamin C has been set at 2,000 milligrams per day)."	irrelevant	neutral
"Some studies suggest taking vitamin C has a modest effect on the common cold, but don't expect miracles, one expert says."	relevant	support
"""It's fair to say that vitamin C supplementation both shortens duration of cold and offers some protection against colds, though it's not very dramatic,"" said Stephen Lawson, a researcher at the Linus Pauling Institute at Oregon State University, who studies micronutrients."	relevant	support
"Vitamin C gained its reputation as an almost miraculous substance after two-time Nobel Prize winner Linus Pauling first touted the benefits of the micronutrient in a series of books, with titles such as ""Vitamin C and the Common Cold,"" (W.H."	relevant	support
Pauling suggested that taking large doses of vitamin C could do everything from fight cancer to prevent heart disease.	irrelevant	neutral
"But many of Pauling's more dramatic claims were not borne out in research done since then, and by the time he died in 1994, some in the medical establishment had labeled him a quack."	irrelevant	neutral
"Today, the Institute of Medicine recommends that adult males get 90 milligrams of vitamin C daily in their diet, women get 75 mg daily and children consume between 15 and 75 mg daily, depending on their age and sex."	irrelevant	neutral
"Lawson's institution, which was founded by Pauling, recommends taking 400 milligrams of vitamin C a day to promote optimal health."	irrelevant	neutral
Whether vitamin C is a reasonable way to treat the common cold remains a more open question.	relevant	neutral
" American Academy of Nurse Practitioners suggests it could be effective at reducing the duration of a cold, but not its severity."	relevant	support
The American Association of Family Physicians says the vitamin is unlikely to shorten the duration or severity of colds.	relevant	oppose
"A 2013 review of dozens of studies found that vitamin C reduces the duration of colds by 8 percent in adults, and 14 percent in children."	relevant	support
"Considering that the average cold lasts about a week, that reduction translates to about one less day of symptoms."	relevant	support
"For people in the general population, vitamin C didn't ward off colds, the researchers also found."	relevant	oppose
"But among people under intense physical stress — such as marathon runners, skiers and soldiers exercising in the Arctic — those who took vitamin C supplements were about half as likely to get colds as those who did not, the researchers found."	relevant	support
"Most of the studies that the researchers reviewed were double-blinded, meaning that neither the participants nor the doctors who ran the study were told which participants were getting a sugar pill and which were taking the vitamin supplement."	irrelevant	neutral
"As for the flu, there are no modern studies suggesting that the vitamin can help prevent the flu, though research from the 1940s and 1950s hints at a protective effect, Lawson said."	irrelevant	neutral
"Though it's not clear how vitamin C might ward off the common cold, one possibility is that it activates white blood cells in some way, Lawson said."	relevant	support
"A small study published in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition found that vitamin C may dampen the inflammatory response caused by the chemical histamine and this antihistamine effect could reduce the symptoms of a cold, such as runny noses, that occur when the body ramps up its inflammatory response."	relevant	support
"In short, vitamin C could have some modest benefit for people seeking to avoid colds, but it's no miracle cure."	relevant	support
"There are other measures more likely to have a noticeable effect on colds, such as regular hand-washing and getting enough dietary zinc, according to a 2014 study in the Canadian Medical Association Journal."	relevant	oppose
"Researchers also believe the powerful antioxidant action of vitamin C mops up inflammatory chemicals produced during a viral infection, to improve symptoms and hasten healing if a cold develops ."	relevant	support
Early studies involving school children and students  found that taking vitamin C reduced the risk of catching a cold by as much as 30%.	relevant	support
"Men doing heavy physical exercise are particularly prone to respiratory infections, and taking 600mg to 1g vitamin C per day was found to half the risk of cold symptoms for military troops under training, as well as for participants in a 90 km running race ."	relevant	support
The most recent Cochrane review into vitamin C and colds found a consistent treatment benefit with a reduction in the duration of a cold as well as in the severity of the symptoms	relevant	support
"Although Cochrane review found no evidence to support an effect in preventing colds, this was probably because doses higher than those usually taken are needed ."	relevant	support
"""The role vitamin C plays, with respect to the common cold, remains controversial,"" says Beth Isaac, PharmD."	relevant	neutral
"""There is very little evidence demonstrating that vitamin C has any significant effect on the common cold."""	relevant	oppose
"The Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database rates effectiveness based on scientific evidence, Isaac explains, and according to the National Institutes of Health, vitamin C is considered possibly effective for treating the common cold."	relevant	oppose
"""Vitamin C may be effective for the common cold for specific types of people,"" she adds."	relevant	support
"After analyzing extensive data from 29 studies, the researchers concluded that there was no evidence that it prevented the common cold, and found only a slight amount of evidence that it reduced the duration and severity of colds."	relevant	oppose
"However, in five studies of people under extreme physical stress, like marathon runners and skiers, taking vitamin C appeared to reduce the occurrence of the common cold."	relevant	support
"Though the information on vitamin C and the common cold is mixed, there are few risks in trying vitamin C and vitamin C supplements for reducing the severity or duration of cold and flu."	relevant	support
"However, Isaac doesn't recommend taking high doses of vitamin C every day — only while the cold is active."	relevant	neutral
"In the past few decades, multiple randomized controlled trials have examined whether the vitamin has any actual effect on the common cold."	relevant	neutral
The results have been fairly disappointing.	relevant	oppose
"A meta-analysis that examined 29 trials in a total of 11,306 participants revealed that supplementing with 200mg or more of Vitamin C did NOT reduce frequency of colds ."	relevant	oppose
"However, there was a tendency for Vitamin C to reduce the severity and duration of colds."	relevant	support
"Basically, if you take Vitamin C, you’ll get just as many colds as you did before but they may be slightly less severe and last for a slightly shorter time period."	relevant	support
"Of course, there are other potential benefits of Vitamin C supplementation and there’s a lot of epidemiological evidence suggesting that adequate Vitamin C from foods is linked to reduced risk of cardiovascular disease and cancer ."	irrelevant	neutral
Whether vitamin C has an effect on the common cold has been a subject of controversy for at least 60 years.	relevant	neutral
"Linus Pauling's book Vitamin C and The Common Cold, published in 1970, was a bestseller and led many people to believe in the value of the vitamin for cold prevention and treatment."	relevant	neutral
"But an article in this month's PLoS Medicine reviewing all of the best clinical research on this topic, suggests that the public's enthusiasm for the vitamin may be unjustified."	relevant	oppose
