"The authors of an article on the trial's results, published in JAMA, point out that the percentage of cancer risk was high in women taking HRT, compared to women who didn't take hormones"	relevant	oppose
"The authors of an article on the trial's results, published in JAMA, point out thatthe actual number of women who are on HRT, getting these illnesses was small."	relevant	support
"Out of 10,000 women taking HRT, seven more would be expected to have coronary heart disease events, eight more would have breast cancer, eight more would have strokes, and eight more would have blood clots."	relevant	oppose
The difference between the women taking HRT and those on placebo was alarming enough to halt at five years a portion of the study that was supposed last more than eight years.	relevant	oppose
New research confirms HRT risks outweigh benefits .	relevant	oppose
"Further refining the data collected, a secondary analysis of the WHI study found evidence to suggest that women who begin hormone therapy within 10 years of menopause may have less of a risk of heart disease than women who are farther from menopause."	relevant	support
"The study, published in the April 4, 2007, issue of JAMA, also discovered that increased risk of heart disease in older women occurs primarily in those who have hot flashes and night sweats, though it remains unclear whether this explained their higher risk on hormone therapy."	relevant	oppose
Another study of the WHI data published in JAMA in 2008 confirmed the health risks associated with long-term use of estrogen/progestin hormone therapy in postmenopausal women.	relevant	oppose
"While the study showed diminished risk of heart disease three years after the WHI intervention stopped, researchers found the overall risks of hormone therapy -- such as stroke, blood clots, and cancer -- outweighed the benefits."	relevant	oppose
"And in 2010, the news about combined HRT contributing to more deadly forms of breast cancer and mortality led more practitioners to reconsider the way they counseled women about hormone therapy, according to some reports."	relevant	oppose
"""The good news is that after women stop taking combination hormone therapy, their risk of heart disease appears to decrease,"" said Elizabeth G. Nabel, MD, NHLBI director."	relevant	oppose
"""Today's report confirms the study's primary conclusion that combination hormone therapy should not be used to prevent disease in healthy, postmenopausal women."""	relevant	oppose
"If you are taking the combined hormone pill for the long-term treatment of chronic disease such as osteoporosis, federal researchers have urged that you and your doctor discuss the possibility of stopping the therapy or tapering it off."	relevant	oppose
"For postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, for example, there are a number of treatments that have been shown to be more effective than hormone replacement therapy."	relevant	oppose
"For women with moderate to severe or disabling symptoms of menopause, taking hormones for short-term use may make sense."	relevant	support
"Still, even in these cases, women should be on the minimum dose to relieve their symptoms and consider tapering off of their medications over time."	relevant	neutral
"As mentioned, doctors choose to prescribe progestin along with estrogen because estrogen taken alone can increase the risk of uterine cancer, unless you've had a hysterectomy."	relevant	oppose
Progestin keeps uterine cells from dividing and causes the uterus to shed its lining each month.	irrelevant	neutral
"If you do use HRT, you'll need to have an annual checkup, including a blood-pressure check, breast and pelvic exams, and a Pap test."	relevant	neutral
"You may notice breast tenderness, headaches, bloating, and mood changes while you're on hormone replacement therapy, especially if you're taking progestin."	relevant	oppose
"Getting HRT may be inadvisable if you have a personal or family history of breast cancer or if you've ever had uterine cancer, liver disease, a blood clot, heart disease, high blood pressure, a heart attack, or a stroke."	relevant	oppose
"HRT may also not be a good choice if you have uterine fibroids, since estrogen can make them grow bigger, and thus cause pain and bleeding."	relevant	oppose
"Many bothersome symptoms associated with menopause, including hot flashes and mood swings, frequently get better on their own."	relevant	oppose
"One of the best things women can do, according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI), is to adopt a healthy lifestyle -- including not smoking, getting regular exercise, and having a good, nutritious diet."	irrelevant	neutral
"Good diet will help lower your risk of bone loss, which increases as you age."	irrelevant	neutral
"If you are at risk of heart disease or osteoporosis, and lifestyle changes don't seem to be working, there are many prescription drugs available to help ward off those conditions."	irrelevant	neutral
And there are a variety of nonhormonal therapies to treat bladder problems and vaginal dryness associated with menopause.	relevant	oppose
"Unfortunately, few effective alternative treatments exist for menopausal symptoms that are severe."	relevant	support
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) involves taking female sex hormones to replace hormones that your ovaries no longer produce after menopause.	irrelevant	neutral
HRT is very effective in easing many of the symptoms of menopause that women have.	relevant	support
HRT can also help to lower the risk of osteoporosis [2] and prevent some of the long term health problems associated with early menopause.	relevant	support
There are two main types of HRT namely (i)  ‘oestrogen only HRT’ which contains only  oestrogen and (ii)  ‘combined HRT’ which contains both oestrogen and a progesterone.	irrelevant	neutral
‘oestrogen only HRT’ is used for women who have had a hysterectomy.	irrelevant	neutral
"There are also ne therapies, such as progestogens and testosterone."	irrelevant	neutral
"There are several ways HRT can be taken, including as a gel that you rub into your skin, tablets or a patch that sticks onto your skin."	irrelevant	neutral
Deciding which type of HRT to use can be difficult.	irrelevant	neutral
Some women do get side effects with HRT and these will be explained if you choose to use HRT.	relevant	oppose
Some women are wary of HRT because it has been reported in the media that it can increase your risk of developing cancer.	relevant	oppose
There is no evidence that HRT or vaginal oestrogen after treatment for cervical cancer stimulates your cervical cancer to grow again.	relevant	support
Current research evidence suggests taking HRT can slightly increase your risk of developing ovarian and breast cancer.	relevant	oppose
"If you are worried about taking HRT, you should discuss the risks and benefits relating to your individual situation with your doctor."	relevant	neutral
"For most women with menopausal symptoms or those thought to be at risk of osteoporosis, the benefits of taking HRT outweigh the risks."	relevant	support
"It’s important to remember that if you are in early menopause (ie. under 45) rather than natural menopause, HRT will just be replacing the hormones that would normally be produced at your age."	irrelevant	neutral
"Tt is thought that most women in early menopause would benefit from taking HRT, at least until the predicted age of natural menopause – roughly 52 years of age."	relevant	support
Hormone replacement therapy — medications containing female hormones to replace the ones the body no longer makes after menopause — used to be a standard treatment for women with hot flashes and other menopause symptoms.	relevant	support
Hormone therapy (as it's now called) was also thought to have the long-term benefits of preventing heart disease and possibly dementia.	relevant	support
"Use of hormone therapy changed abruptly when a large clinical trial found that the treatment actually posed more health risks than benefits for one type of hormone therapy, particularly when given to older postmenopausal women."	relevant	oppose
"As the concern about health hazards attributed to hormone therapy grew, doctors became less likely to prescribe it."	relevant	oppose
"Hormone therapy is no longer recommended for disease prevention, such as heart disease or memory loss."	relevant	oppose
"However, further review of clinical trials and new evidence show that hormone therapy may be a good choice for certain women, depending on their risk factors."	relevant	support
"The benefits of hormone therapy depend, in part, on whether you take systemic hormone therapy or low-dose vaginal preparations of estrogen."	relevant	support
"Systemic estrogen — which comes in pill, skin patch, gel, cream or spray form — remains the most effective treatment for relief of troublesome menopausal hot flashes and night sweats."	relevant	support
"Estrogen can also ease vaginal symptoms of menopause, such as dryness, itching, burning and discomfort with intercourse."	relevant	support
"Low-dose vaginal preparations of estrogen — which come in cream, tablet or ring form — can effectively treat vaginal symptoms and some urinary symptoms, while minimizing absorption into the body."	relevant	support
"Low-dose vaginal preparations do not help with hot flashes, night sweats or protection against osteoporosis."	relevant	oppose
Long-term systemic hormone therapy for the prevention of postmenopausal conditions is no longer routinely recommended.	relevant	oppose
But some data suggest that estrogen can decrease the risk of heart disease when taken early in postmenopausal years.	relevant	support
"A recent, randomized, controlled clinical trial — the Kronos Early Estrogen Prevention Study (KEEPS) — explored estrogen use and heart disease in younger postmenopausal women."	irrelevant	neutral
The study found no significant association between hormone therapy and heart disease.	relevant	oppose
"For women who haven't had their uterus removed, estrogen is typically prescribed along with progesterone or progestin (progesterone-like medication)."	irrelevant	neutral
"This is because estrogen alone, when not balanced by progesterone, can stimulate growth of the lining of the uterus, increasing the risk of uterine cancer."	relevant	support
Women who have had their uterus removed (hysterectomy) don't need to take progestin.	irrelevant	neutral
"In the largest clinical trial to date, a combination estrogen-progestin pill (Prempro) increased the risk of certain serious conditions, including: Heart disease, Stroke, Blood clots and Breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
A related clinical trial evaluating estrogen alone (Premarin) in women who previously had a hysterectomy found no increased risk of breast cancer or heart disease.	relevant	support
"Hormone therapy, particularly estrogen combined with a progestin, can make your breasts look more dense on mammograms, making breast cancer more difficult to detect."	relevant	oppose
"Also, especially when taken for more than a few years, hormone therapy increases the risk of breast cancer, a finding confirmed in multiple studies of different hormone therapy combinations, not just limited to a combination estrogen-progestin pill (Prempro)."	relevant	oppose
"The risks of hormone therapy may vary depending on whether estrogen is given alone or with a progestin, and depending on your current age and age at menopause, the dose and type of estrogen, and other health risks such as your risks of heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease, cancer risks and family medical history."	relevant	neutral
All of these risks should be considered in deciding whether hormone therapy might be an option for you.	relevant	neutral
"Despite the health risks, systemic estrogen is still the most effective treatment for menopausal symptoms."	relevant	support
"The benefits of hormone therapy may outweigh the risks if you're healthy and experience moderate to severe hot flashes or other menopausal symptoms, have lost bone mass and either can't tolerate or aren't benefitting from other treatments, stopped having periods before age 40 (premature menopause) or lost normal function of your ovaries before age 40 (premature ovarian insufficiency)."	relevant	support
Early menopause typically lowers the risk of most types of breast cancer.	relevant	support
"For women who reach menopause prematurely, the protective benefits of hormone therapy usually outweigh the risks."	relevant	support
"Hormone replacement therapy increases the risk of ovarian cancer, analysis of 52 separate studies has found."	relevant	oppose
"The University of Oxford research, in the Lancet, found an extra case for every 1,000 women taking the drugs for five years from the age of 50."	relevant	oppose
"Lead researcher Sir Richard Peto said  ""claims that there was no risk for short courses of HRT simply isn't true""."	relevant	oppose
"A leading cancer charity said this was a ""modest increase on a relatively uncommon cancer. ""."	relevant	oppose
"HRT drugs are used to alleviate the symptoms of the menopause, which can be so severe they interfere with day-to-day life."	relevant	support
Women have a one in 50 chance of developing ovarian cancer in their lifetime .	irrelevant	neutral
"Taking HRT for five years is linked to one extra case of ovarian cancer per 1,000 women."	relevant	oppose
"There is an increased risk of breast cancer with HRT, which has been well documented."	relevant	oppose
"However, the HRT drugs have also been found to reduce the risk of osteoporosis and bowel cancers."	relevant	support
"But the impact on ovarian cancer due to HRT has been debated, particularly for those taking the drug for less than five years."	relevant	neutral
"Scientists behind the latest study, which looked at data from 52 separate studies including 21,500 women with ovarian cancer, say it proves there is a link between HRT and ovarian cancer."	relevant	oppose
"Prof Sir Richard Peto told the BBC News website: ""It's a risk, about a million women in this country have HRT and 1,000 will get ovarian cancer from it."""	relevant	oppose
Ovarian cancer is often difficult to diagnose as the symptoms are similar to irritable bowel syndrome and other conditions.	irrelevant	neutral
"The study, conducted by a team at Oxford University and involving 100 researchers worldwide, found that women who take HRT to combat symptoms of the menopause are 40 per cent more likely to get one of the two most common types of ovarian cancer."	relevant	oppose
"Researchers warned that even taking the treatment for less than five years, as is common medical practice, increased the risk of succumbing to ovarian cancer."	relevant	oppose
"Prof Sir Richard Peto, co-author, said: ""For women who take HRT for five years from around age 50, there will be about one extra ovarian cancer for every 1,000 users and one extra ovarian cancer death for every 1,700 users."""	relevant	oppose
The study found that there was a significantly increased risk of developing the disease in current or recent users of HRT.	relevant	oppose
"Although the ovarian cancer risk falls over time after stopping HRT treatment, women who had used HRT for at least five years still had an increased risk of ovarian cancer 10 years later."	relevant	oppose
The effects were the same for the two main types of HRT – preparations containing just oestrogen and oestrogen together with a progestagen.	irrelevant	neutral
"An increase in risk with HRT was seen only for the two most common types of ovarian cancer, serous and endometrioid ovarian cancers, and not for the two less common types, mucinous and clear cell ovarian cancers."	relevant	oppose
"Current HRT guidelines from the World Health Organisation, the US and Europe do not mention ovarian cancer, whilst UK guidelines state only that the risk might be increased with long-term use."	relevant	oppose
"Prof Dame Valerie Beral, professor of epidemiology and director of the cancer epidemiology unit at the University of Oxford, called for guidelines to be changed to warn women of the link between HRT and ovarian cancer."	relevant	oppose
"She said: ""The definite risk of ovarian cancer, even with less than five years of HRT, is directly relevant to today's patterns of use - with most women now taking HRT for only a few years - and has implications for current efforts to revise UK and worldwide guidelines."""	relevant	oppose
"Although HRT use fell rapidly about a decade ago, in the UK and the US around six million women are still using the treatment, which counters hot flushes, mood swings and other symptoms of the menopause."	relevant	neutral
"Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cause of cancer death among women in the UK, accounting for six per cent of all female deaths from cancer."	irrelevant	neutral
"In 2007, a similar Oxford University study concluded that 1,000 British women may have died from ovarian cancer since 1991 because they have taken HRT."	relevant	oppose
"Scientists found that the rate of ovarian cancer among those who took HRT was 2.6 per 1,000 women over five years."	relevant	oppose
"For women who did not take the drug, the cancer incidence dropped to 2.2 per 1,000 over the same period."	relevant	oppose
Your risk of developing breast cancer may rise slightly with the amount of oestrogen your body is exposed to.	relevant	oppose
"For example, if you started your periods at a young age and experienced the menopause at a late age, you'll have been exposed to oestrogen over a longer period of time."	irrelevant	neutral
"In the same way, not having children, or having children later in life, may slightly increase your risk of developing breast cancer because your exposure to oestrogen is uninterrupted by pregnancy."	irrelevant	neutral
"If you've experienced the menopause and are overweight or obese, you may be more at risk of developing breast cancer."	irrelevant	neutral
"This is thought to be linked to the amount of oestrogen in your body, because being overweight or obese after the menopause causes more oestrogen to be produced."	irrelevant	neutral
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is associated with a slightly increased risk of developing breast cancer.	relevant	oppose
"Both combined HRT and oestrogen-only HRT can increase your risk of developing breast cancer, although the risk is slightly higher if you take combined HRT."	relevant	oppose
"It's estimated that there will be an extra 19 cases of breast cancer for every 1,000 women taking combined HRT for 10 years."	relevant	oppose
"The risk continues to increase slightly the longer you take HRT, but returns to normal once you stop taking it."	relevant	oppose
Several newspapers have today reported that hormone replacement therapy (HRT) does not increase the risk of breast cancer.	relevant	support
The reports said that the study that reported the link between HRT and breast cancer in 2002 was “fundamentally flawed”.	relevant	support
The original research found that women who had taken HRT were twice as likely to develop breast cancer and more likely to die.	relevant	oppose
The Daily Telegraph and other newspapers reported that these 2002 findings “triggered a collapse in confidence in hormone replacement therapy and the number of women taking it halved”.	relevant	oppose
Today’s news reports are based on a new analysis of the data from the Million Women Study and two other studies.	irrelevant	neutral
The researchers wanted to determine whether the association between HRT and breast cancer actually showed that HRT caused an increased risk in breast cancer.	relevant	neutral
They appraised each study against nine criteria that would need to be met before it was possible to say whether HRT caused breast cancer.	relevant	neutral
"For example, one criterion assessed was whether the women had taken HRT before they had breast cancer."	relevant	neutral
This new analysis did not suggest that the original studies were poorly performed but it did highlight limitations to what the studies can tell us.	irrelevant	neutral
The analysis found that all three studies failed to meet the majority of the criteria and therefore none of the studies was able to establish whether HRT increases the risk of breast cancer.	relevant	support
"This was a reanalysis of three studies suggesting that HRT caused an increased risk of breast cancer, to see whether the association was actually causal."	relevant	neutral
Oestrogen-only HRT can only be given to women who have had a hysterectomy (they have no uterus).	irrelevant	neutral
"In women who have an intact uterus, giving “unopposed” oestrogen without progesterone can cause overgrowth of the lining of the uterus (the endometrium), which increases the risk of endometrial cancer."	relevant	oppose
The researchers concluded that HRT may or may not increase the risk of breast cancer and none of the three studies is able to establish that it does.	relevant	neutral
The researchers also said that the randomised controlled trial of oestrogen-only HRT had shown no increased risk of breast cancer.	relevant	support
The researchers also looked at the biological plausibility of any causal link.	irrelevant	neutral
New research shows that existingg studies can only tell us that there may or may not be a link between HRT and increased risk of breast cancer.	relevant	neutral
"Further, carefully designed studies are needed to determine whether HRT does indeed cause an increased risk of breast cancer."	relevant	neutral
"Women who are taking HRT for menopausal symptoms or who used to take HRT should note the advice from Cancer Help UK, which states that any cancer risk associated with HRT reduces to a normal level five years after you stop taking HRT."	relevant	oppose
"After menopause, a woman’s ovaries stop producing the hormone oestrogen."	irrelevant	neutral
"As a result, she may experience menopausal symptoms including hot flashes and mood swings."	irrelevant	neutral
HRT treats these symptoms by boosting the body with more female sex hormones.	relevant	support
"The evidence that HRT can cause some types of cancer (breast, womb and ovarian) is strong."	relevant	oppose
"A study of one million women, run by Cancer Research UK scientists, has shown that different types of HRT can increase the risk of different cancers."	relevant	oppose
"The risk of developing breast cancer is increased for women who are using combined HRT, and may also be increased for users of oestrogen-only HRT."	relevant	oppose
The Million Women Study results suggested that women who are using combined HRT have double the risk of breast cancer compared to non-users.	relevant	oppose
"And if they use HRT for over 10 years, their risks are even higher."	relevant	oppose
"Once a woman stops using HRT, her risk of breast cancer will start to drop back down again."	relevant	oppose
Breast cancer is much more common than either ovarian or womb cancer.	irrelevant	neutral
"This means that, if you look at the total effect of HRT on these types of cancer, combined HRT is linked to more cases than oestrogen-only HRT, because of its effect on the risk of breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
HRT which uses oestrogen-only increases the risk of womb cancer.	relevant	oppose
But the picture for combined HRT is a bit more complicated.	relevant	neutral
There is evidence that the progestogen part of combined HRT can counteract the cancer-causing effects of the oestrogen part.	relevant	support
"Studies have shown that the more days per month a woman uses progestogen, as part of combined HRT, the less the increase in risk of womb cancer."	relevant	support
"At the moment there isn't enough research to say whether, above a certain dose, the progestogen can outweigh the oestrogen and actually reduce the risk of womb cancer overall."	relevant	neutral
Using either oestrogen-only or combined (oestrogen and progestogen) HRT increases a woman's risk of ovarian cancer.	relevant	oppose
In 2015 new research found that there is an increased risk of ovarian cancer even for women who are taking HRT for under 5 years.	relevant	oppose
When a woman stops taking HRT the risk starts to go back down over time.	relevant	oppose
"In the UK, for every 1000 women using any type of HRT for 5 years from age 50 there is thought to be 1 extra case of ovarian cancer."	relevant	oppose
"HRT may reduce the risk of bowel cancer, but the evidence is mixed."	relevant	neutral
It's also unclear whether any reduction in the risk of bowel cancer would only last for as long as a woman is using HRT.	relevant	neutral
More research needs to be carried out in this area before this link is confirmed.	relevant	neutral
"A meta-analysis of 52 epidemiological studies, involving a total of 21488 women with ovarian cancer, almost all from North America, Europe and Australia, was published in The Lancet on 13 February 2015 ."	irrelevant	support
"The findings from the study suggest that taking hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for the menopause, even for just a few years, is associated with an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer."	relevant	oppose
In the days since the study was released examination of the relative and absolute risk calculations have shown them to be incorrect.	relevant	oppose
"The revised absolute risk increase appears to now sit at just under 1 extra case per 10,000 women per year; somewhat less than the study initially suggested."	relevant	neutral
Ovarian cancer is a rare condition but all the risks and benefits of hormone therapy need to be carefully considered when treating women at menopause.	relevant	neutral
Women should not stop hormone therapy based on this study but if they are concerned they should discuss the findings with their doctor.	relevant	neutral
HRT increases ovarian cancer risk by small amount.	relevant	oppose
"As much of the UK media pointed out, while the risk increase found here is worth noting and investigating further, women should not stop taking HRT without consulting their doctor."	relevant	neutral
"What often gets lost in the mix when the media discuss HRT is that it brings very real benefits to the quality of life, which should not be discounted."	relevant	support
"Most experts agree that if HRT is used on a short-term basis (no more than five years), the benefits usually outweigh the risks..."	relevant	support
This topic has been a contentious issue for some years with a majority of observational studies failing to show an increased risk of ovarian cancer with HRT use whilst two large studies from the UK and Denmark did find an increase.	relevant	neutral
"It is important to note that the largest Randomised trial of HRT in post menopausal women, The Women’s Health Initiative, did not find any increase in risk of ovarian cancer for users of oestrogen or oestrogen plus progestogen therapy after more than 5 years use."	relevant	support
"This meta-analysis does not suggest that HRT causes ovarian cancer but does find an association between HRT use and increased risk of two specific types of epithelial ovarian cancer, serous and endometroid."	relevant	oppose
The meta-analysis also finds a reduced risk of mucinous ovarian cancer with HRT use.	relevant	support
"Study Suggests Progestin, Not Estrogen, Is the Real Cancer Culprit in Hormone Replacement Therapy."	relevant	neutral
"Hormone therapy that includes progestin plus estrogen may increase breast cancer risk, but estrogen alone may lower risk, according to long-term review."	relevant	neutral
A long-term review of two clinical trials has shed new light on menopausal hormone therapy and breast cancer risk over time.	relevant	neutral
"In earlier clinical trials, combination hormone replacement therapy (HRT) consisting of progestin plus estrogen was linked to an increased risk of breast cancer and death from that disease."	relevant	oppose
Women who had a hysterectomy and took estrogen alone were found to have a reduced risk of breast cancer and breast cancer death.	relevant	support
Results showed that women were at increased risk of breast cancer while taking combination HRT.	relevant	oppose
"Within 2.75 years after stopping therapy, the risk was still present but not as high."	irrelevant	oppose
The study authors concluded there is a “greater adverse influence for estrogen and progestin use and somewhat greater benefit for use of estrogen alone.” .	irrelevant	oppose
"During menopause, a woman’s body begins to produce less estrogen and progesterone."	irrelevant	neutral
"Lack of estrogen can cause symptoms such as hot flashes, vaginal dryness, and painful intercourse."	irrelevant	neutral
Replacing estrogen can help ease those symptoms.	irrelevant	neutral
Estrogen is prescribed for women who no longer have a uterus.	irrelevant	neutral
"Estrogen therapy may increase the risk of endometrial cancer, so women who still have a uterus usually take estrogen plus progestin."	relevant	oppose
"Progestin is a synthetic version of progesterone, a hormone that helps protect the uterus."	irrelevant	neutral
"HRT may also increase risk of blood clots, heart attack, and stroke."	relevant	oppose
"According to the National Cancer Institute, evidence regarding risks and benefits come from the clinical trials conducted as part of the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI)."	relevant	neutral
"Benefits and risks of bioidentical hormones are the same as for other hormone products, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration."	relevant	neutral
HRT may help alleviate some symptoms.	relevant	support
"For patients who are at higher risk of breast cancer, Bitner explores alternative therapies for menopausal symptoms that will reduce exposure to progesterone."	relevant	oppose
"If you have a personal history of breast cancer or are at higher risk, HRT may not be safe."	relevant	oppose
Many factors aside from HRT influence breast cancer risk.	relevant	neutral
"HRT, a pharmaceutical hormone that often includes a combination of estrogen and progestin, is considered a known human carcinogen."	relevant	oppose
"Several major studies not only show that HRT increases risks for breast cancer, but also link the treatment to heart disease, stroke and blood clots."	relevant	oppose
There is a long established link between lifetime exposure to steroid hormones such as HRT and breast cancer.	relevant	oppose
It is not surprising that there are concerns over exposure to hormones through pharmaceuticals.	irrelevant	oppose
The evidence from studies of women taking HRT has supported these concerns regarding cancer.	relevant	oppose
"You can treat many of the symptoms of menopause with exercise and a healthy diet, instead of with HRT."	relevant	oppose
"If you decide to use HRT, try estrogen-only formulations and use it for as brief a time as possible."	relevant	oppose
"Between 1995 and 2000, several epidemiological studies indicated that use of combined estrogen-progestin hormone replacement therapy (HRT) treatments led to an increase in invasive breast cancer ."	relevant	oppose
"In the decade since, combined HRT use has declined, as have rates of estrogen-receptor-positive  breast cancer in post-menopausal women."	relevant	oppose
"A 2002 study called the Women's Health Initiative (WHI), designed to explore the benefits and risks of combined estrogen-progestin HRT was halted three and a half years before the intended end of the study period, because researchers observed a 26 percent increase in the relative risk of breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
"WHI study on HRT usage showed that 38 women are being diagnosed with breast cancer per 10,000 women who are taking the combined HRT per year as compared to 30 women per 10,000 who are not using HRT. "	relevant	oppose
"Since the results of the WHI were initially published, other large studies have supported its major conclusions of HRT causing breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
"In 2003, Swedish researchers halted a study of HRT in women,   because women taking  HRT had three times the rate of recurrence or of new tumors compared to women who received other treatments for menopausal symptoms "	relevant	oppose
"Originally planned as a five-year study, the Swedish trial was stopped earlier due to its adverse outcomes in women taking HRT."	relevant	oppose
"Also in 2003, researchers in the Million Women Study in the United Kingdom reported that the use of all types of post-menopausal HRT resulted in a statistically significant increase in the risk of breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
Breast cancer risk was greatest among users of estrogen-progestin combination therapy.	relevant	oppose
The study enrolled more than 1 million women ages 50 to 64.	irrelevant	neutral
Researchers estimated that women who used HRT for 10 years were almost four times more likely to develop breast cancer than women who  did not use HRT.	relevant	oppose
Other research has confirmed the basic result that use of HRT increases risk of breast cancer in post-menopausal women.	relevant	oppose
Examination of cancer tissue in women taking combined HRT at the time of diagnosis reveals an increased presentation of breast cancer of lobular origin .	relevant	oppose
"More recent analyses clarify that the increased risk of breast cancer in the Women’s Health Initiative study occurred in women taking the combined estrogen-progestin formula, but not in women taking estrogen-only HRT supplements."	relevant	oppose
"When the studies were continued for the estrogen-only arms of the major studies, statistically significant decreases in breast cancer risk were noted in women who had been taking conjugated equine estrogen formulations."	relevant	oppose
"For women with intact uteri, estrogen only treatment is not an acceptable option, because estrogen-only treatment leads to a statistically significant increased risk for uterine cancer ."	relevant	oppose
Data from the Million Women Study suggest that the benefits of the estrogen-only treatment might not apply to women at higher risk for a diagnosis of breast cancer.	relevant	oppose
A follow-up of the women in the Women’s Health Initiative trial three years after all study participants stopped taking either the HRT or placebo treatments demonstrated increases in invasive cancers of all sorts (grouped together) in women who had been in the HRT arm of the trial.	relevant	oppose
"After three years, breast cancer rates remained slightly elevated in this group but were no longer statistically different from the placebo group."	relevant	oppose
These data suggest that the increased risk for breast cancer that accompanies use of HRT is reversible within a fairly short period following discontinuation of the treatment.	relevant	oppose
"This finding is consistent with the rapid drop in  post-menopausal breast cancer incidence rates since 2002, a decrease that has been attributed to the precipitous drop in HRT prescriptions in white, middle/upper class post-menopausal women following the release of the data from these large studies."	relevant	oppose
"It was eye-catching news in 2002 when researchers called a halt to a major government-run study of a hormone therapy used by millions of older women, after they found that long-term use of estrogen and progestin raised the risk of heart disease, stroke, blood clots, and invasive breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
"The cardiovascular and cancer risks of estrogen plus progestin outweigh any benefits -- and a 26 percent increase in breast cancer risk is too high a price to pay, even if there were a heart benefit, said Claude Lenfant, MD, director of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, the agency that halted the study."	relevant	oppose
"The next year, the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) reported more bad news for women getting HRT."	relevant	oppose
"The journal published a study of women who took a combination of estrogen and progestin, a synthetic form of progesterone, and showed they were at risk of getting a more aggressive form of breast cancer than women who didn't get HRT."	relevant	oppose
"Not only were women more likely to develop breast cancer if they took the hormones, researchers wrote, but their tumors tended to be larger and more advanced than breast cancers that developed in women who took a placebo."	relevant	oppose
"Women on combination hormone therapy were also more likely to have abnormal mammograms -- even in the first year of treatment -- than women taking a placebo, according to the same study."	relevant	oppose
"Other studies soon found HRT also increased the risk of Alzheimer's, dementia, and asthma."	relevant	oppose
"And in 2010, new research found that combined estrogen-progestin HRT increased the risk for more severe forms of breast cancer and increased a woman's chances of dying from the disease or other causes."	relevant	oppose
"Although there had been some reports that women on HRT developed less aggressive cancers, the researchers found that was far from the case."	relevant	oppose
"On the contrary, women taking the combined HRT were 25 percent more likely to have an invasive breast cancer than women in the placebo group. "	relevant	oppose
 Women taking the combined HRT were 78 percent more likely to have cancer that had spread to the lymph nodes.	relevant	oppose
  Women taking the combined HRT were almost twice as likely as the placebo group to die of breast cancer (and 57 percent more likely to die of other causes).	relevant	oppose
"As you approach menopause, your levels of estrogen and progesterone (the hormones that cause you to ovulate and menstruate each month) start to decline, often triggering a whole host of symptoms that can range from annoying to incapacitating."	relevant	neutral
"Replacing the lost estrogen with hormone supplements can alleviate these problems, which may include hot flashes, depression, mood swings, vaginal dryness, sleep disturbances, and clouded thinking."	relevant	support
Some women may be able to take hormone replacement therapy to treat hot flashes and other menopausal symptoms in the short term without any ill effects.	relevant	support
"However, the latest news about associated health risks has led doctors to believe that the cancer risks are serious enough to outweigh the benefits of the therapy for many women."	relevant	oppose
"After five years of taking a combination of estrogen and synthetic progesterone, women in the national WHI clinical were found to be at such high risk for life-threatening diseases such as cancer, that their portion of the trial was halted three years early in 2002."	relevant	oppose
"""We conclude that estrogen plus progestin does not prevent heart disease and is not beneficial overall,"" the researchers wrote."	relevant	oppose
Estrogen taken without progestin can cause uterine cancer.	relevant	oppose
"Therefore, for some years doctors have recommended that the only women who should take estrogen without progestin on a continuous basis are women who have had a hysterectomy."	irrelevant	neutral
"For women without a hysterectomy, the only recommended hormone replacement therapy is the combination of estrogen and progestin, which causes an increased risk of breast cancer."	relevant	oppose
But a study reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association links the use of estrogen alone as a hormone replacement therapy to a possible increase in the risk of ovarian cancer.	relevant	oppose
"Researchers studied medical records dating as far back as 1973 of 44,421 women on ERT and found they had at least a 60 percent higher risk of ovarian cancer than women who had never used hormone replacement therapy."	relevant	oppose
"In view of this latest news, some doctors are reevaluating the safety of estrogen replacement therapy for everyone except women who have had a hysterectomy and who have had both ovaries removed."	relevant	oppose
"In a study of more than 16,000 women, sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI), the rate of coronary heart disease among women who took HRT was 29 percent higher, compared with the women who took placebos."	relevant	oppose
"The women on combined HRT  had a 41 percent increase in the rate of strokes, twice the number of blood clots, and a 26 percent increase in invasive breast cancer rates."	relevant	oppose
"In a sub-study of 4,500 women aged 65 and older in the WHI, those on the HRT regimen were found to be twice as likely to develop Alzheimer's disease or another form of dementia within five years compared with women who took a placebo."	relevant	oppose
"This part of the study, reported in JAMA, also found that the estrogen/progestin therapy was ineffective in preventing mild cognitive impairment, a dimming of cognitive function that is less severe than dementia and which sometimes occurs as we age."	relevant	oppose
HRT had often been prescribed for the treatment of urinary incontinence.	relevant	neutral
An analysis by WHI investigators found that HRT caused or worsened urinary incontinence in participants in the trial.	relevant	oppose
Researchers found that women taking estrogen combined with progesterone had a 39 percent greater risk of urinary incontinence than participants taking a placebo.	relevant	oppose
"The WHI study did find a few benefits from the HRT regimen, including a 37 percent reduction in the rate of colorectal cancer, one-third fewer hip fractures, and a 24 percent reduction in total fractures."	relevant	support
